GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
FEBRUARY 20 MEETING OF ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR WHAT WOULD PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL MEMBER
DEF HERE FOR HARRISON
COUNTERPART AFTER COUNCILOR
WATSON HERE DENHA HERE AND
ELSEWHERE ACROSS THE ISLAND
HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE.
THAT'S WHERE I'M HERE FOR AKMAN
HERE.
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS HERE,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED BY THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR NOEMIA, WE
HAVE AN INTRODUCTION TODAY FROM
THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
MR CARPENTER IN THE HOUSE HE'S
NOT HERE JUST A FEW MOMENTS
AWAY.
I DON'T HAVE ANY WAY TO PUT IT
DOWN A LITTLE BIT.
WE'LL TAKE THE I THINK THERE'S
A NATURAL PAUSE IN THE MIDST
OF PUBLIC COMMENT PERHAPS WITH
COUNCIL'S ACQUIESCENCE WILL AS
A MATTER OF MOVE TO
INTRODUCTION TO BETWEEN NUMBER
SEVEN AND NUMBER EIGHT ON
COUNCIL ON PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
IS THAT CONSISTENT?
LET'S DO THAT
.
POSTPONING THE THE INTRODUCTION
MOVE ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT,
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC COMMENT.
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WELL, MR CARPENTER
, PERFECT.
YOU HAVE TAKEN MR. MAYOR AS A
COUNCILOR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APOLOGIZE FOR MY TARDINESS.
I WILL SAY MY BUS IS LATE BUT
IT'S NOT ENTIRELY TRUE.
SO I'VE BEEN ASKED HERE EVERY
OTHER MONTH TO JUST GIVE YOU
SOME OPERATIONAL UPDATES.
WE ONLY HAVE ONE THAT WE'D LIKE
TO DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO THIS
MONTH AND IT'S SOMETHING I
THINK THAT THE RIDE IN THE CITY
AND MANY OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY HAVE IN COMMON AS I
THINK WE'RE ALL AWARE THE NOT
MICHIGAN DOT IS CURRENTLY
CONDUCTING A STUDY OF US TWENTY
THREE ON THE EAST SIDE OF ANN
ARBOR.
ALL OF THEIR OPTIONS AT THIS
POINT REALLY INVOLVE WIDENING
THE HIGHWAY.
THIS OF YOURSELF SEVERAL WEEKS
AGO PASSED A RESOLUTION ASKING
THEM NOT TO WIDEN THE HIGHWAY.
SINCE THEN WE'VE ALSO SEEN A
LOT OF OUTREACH FROM HUNDREDS
OF MEMBERS OF THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY SIGNING PETITIONS
ALSO ASKING THEM THAT FOR THE
SAME THING
.
COMMON TO ALL OF THOSE HAS BEEN
A REQUEST TO M TO PURSUE A
TRANSIT OPTION AS PART OF THAT
STUDY UNTIL RECENTLY NO ONE HAD
A SPECIFIC IDEA TO PUT FORWARD.
WELL, TURNS OUT THE RIDE DOES
AS PART OF OUR LONG RANGE PLAN
THAT WAS APPROVED BY OUR BOARD
A FEW YEARS AGO AND HAD GONE
THROUGH EXTENSIVE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT.
ONE SECTION OF DID HAVE A
VISION FOR A SECOND RING
OF PARK AND RIDE LOTS ABOUT TEN
MILES OUT FROM THE HARBOR
FREEWAY RICK.
IT WAS NOT ORIGINALLY CONCEIVED
OF AS A HIGHWAY CONGESTION BUT
IT CERTAINLY IS APPROPRIATE IN
THAT RESPECT AND AS PART
OF THIS STUDY WE HAVE OFFERED
TO ASSIST MICHIGAN DOT WITH
CREATING A SCENARIO IN THEIR
STUDY IN ADDITION TO THE
WIDENING OPTIONS WHICH THEY'RE
WELCOME TO CONSIDER.
ALSO PLEASE CONSIDER A TRANSIT
SOLUTION.
WE HAVE SPECIFIC IDEAS FOR THAT
AND THE ONE SLIDE HERE THAT
I'LL SHARE WITH YOU I THINK
ENCAPSULATES THAT GENERAL IDEA
YOU SEE IN THE MAP A VISION
OF LARGE PARKING LOTS ABOUT ONE
OR TWO FREEWAY INTERCHANGES OUT
FROM THE ANN ARBOR RING.
YOU MAY BE FAMILIAR WITH THE
SMALLER PLOTS WE HAVE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR PERHAPS AT PIONEER OR
A US TWENTY THREE IN PLYMOUTH
THOSE HAVE ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
STALLS TO PUT THIS IN
PERSPECTIVE, THESE LOTS A
MINIMUM OF ABOUT TWO THOUSAND
STALLS THAT ALL COMES BACK TO
INSPIRATION THAT WE TOOK FROM
YOUR TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN
FROM THE EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN
ABOUT REDUCING VMT, ABOUT
KEEPING ROADS SAFER BY PULLING
AS MANY CARS AS POSSIBLE OFF
OF THE FREEWAYS COINCIDENTALLY
THE ONES ON US TWENTY THREE
NORTH AND SOUTH ERM FOURTEEN
AND NINETY FOUR TO THE EAST
COULD ALSO BE USED AS
INTERSTATE PARKING LOTS TO
INTERCEPT COMMUTERS BEFORE THEY
ENTER THE US TWENTY THREE
CORRIDOR AND THEN WE BUS THEM
IN TO ANN ARBOR THEREBY
REDUCING PRESSURE ON THE US
TWENTY THREE SEGMENT WHICH IS
WHAT IT SAYS THEY'RE TRYING TO
DO ALLOW THEM TO MAYBE JUST
REBUILD BUT NOT EXPAND THE
HIGHWAY.
IT ALSO COULD REDUCE THE NUMBER
OF CARS TRAVERSING CITY STREETS
TO AND FROM WORK SITES LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE THE HOSPITAL WE WOULD
NOT BE USING STANDARD URBAN LOW
FOR HIGHWAY LOW FLOOR BUSSES
WOULD BE USING THESE HIGHWAY
COACHES.
YOU MAY HAVE SEEN THEM FOR
MACHINE FIRE OR AIR RIDE OR THE
D TO A TO SERVICE.
SO WE THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF POSSIBILITY AND POTENTIAL IN
THIS AND WE SEE COMMON CAUSE
WITH MANY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
IN TOWN.
THE GRASSROOTS ORGANIZATIONS
AND PERHAPS YOURSELF.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
HAVE REACHED OUT TO EMERG ON.
I DO HAVE A MEETING WITH THEM
IN A WEEK OR TWO TO SEE IF I
CAN TALK THEM INTO THIS.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO LEAVE YOU
WITH THIS CONSIDERATION FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
IT WOULD BE NICE IF YOU MIGHT
ALSO CONSIDER ADDITIONAL
RESOLUTIONS OR ADDITIONAL
LANGUAGE AS A BODY ASKING THEM
NOT TO WORK WITH US OR SOMEONE
TO FLESH OUT A TRANSIT SCENARIO
TO INCLUDE A TRANSIT SCENARIO
IN THE US.
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR STUDY.
THAT'S THE SCIENTIFIC WAY THAT
WE CAN GET THE ENGINEERS
INVOLVED, THE FINANCIAL
MODELERS INVOLVED TO SEE IF
THIS SCENARIO REALLY CAN WORK.
I THINK IT'S THE NEXT LOGICAL
STEP.
SO IN CLOSING THERE'S A LOT
OF OTHER GREAT STUFF GOING ON
AT THE RIBE WE'RE GETTING READY
TO DO ZERO EMISSIONS BUS GRANT
PROPOSALS AND A LOT OF GREAT
STUFF.
BUT THIS IS THE ONE THING I
WANTED TO BRING TO YOUR
ATTENTION AGAIN, I APOLOGIZE
FOR WALKING IN A FEW MINUTES
LATE BUT THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
MR. MAYOR.
PLEASE HAVE A GREAT MEETING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
MR. IT.
PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
REMAINS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
THAT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAKER PUBLIC
RESERVE TIME.
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO WHETHER HERE OR ONLINE,
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
.
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
BRIAN DONOVAN.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS BRIAN DONOVAN AND I
WOULD FIRST LIKE TO THANK THE
MAYOR AND ALL OF THE COUNCIL
FOR YOUR WORK AND LEADERSHIP IN
THE CITY AND FOR LETTING ME
SPEAK TODAY.
SO I AM THE GENERAL MANAGER
OF THE INTER COOPERATIVE
COUNCIL.
THE ICC AND I'VE BEEN WORKING
IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING SINCE TWO
THOUSAND AND FIVE I I COMMUTE
TO ANN ARBOR ACTUALLY ON THE
EIGHTY TWO FROM HIGHLAND PARK
EVERY DAY TO WORK AT THE ICC SO
I DON'T LIVE IN ANN ARBOR I
JUST WORK HERE.
THE INTER COOPERATIVE COUNCIL
STARTED IN NINETEEN THIRTY TWO.
WE INCORPORATED BOUGHT OUR
FIRST PROPERTY IN NINETEEN
FORTY FOUR TODAY WE OWNED
NINETEEN PROPERTIES AROUND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN WITH
HOUSES ALL BUT ONE COUNCIL
BOARD MONTHLY CHARGES FOR A
FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY MEMBERS
WHO LIVE IN OUR PROPERTIES
RANGE FROM FOUR HUNDRED AND
NINETY THREE DOLLARS FOR A
SHARED ROOM IN NORTH CAMPUS TO
ONE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
SEVENTY DOLLARS FOR A TWO
BEDROOM APARTMENT ON KINGSLEE
ALL CONTRACTS INCLUDE HIGH
SPEED INTERNET AS WELL AS ALL
UTILITIES.
AFFORDABILITY IS A TOP PRIORITY
FOR THE ICC.
WE'RE PARTICIPATING IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
THAT'S CURRENTLY UNDERWAY AND
HAVE MET WITH PLANNING STAFF
ABOUT POTENTIAL CHANGES THAT
COULD ALLOW ICC TO SERVE MORE
MEMBERS.
PLANNING ALONE IS NOT ENOUGH.
WE'RE COUNTING ON YOU FOR
IMPLEMENTATION IN TWO THOUSAND
NINE THE LAND USE PLAN WAS TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR A GROUP
LIVING IN THE LARGE SWATH
OF LAND IN SOUTH CAMPUS BUT NO
CHANGES WERE IMPLEMENTED.
WE NEED A STRATEGY AND
INCENTIVES TO ENCOURAGE
ACCEPTANCE AND COMMITMENT TO
LONG TERM AFFORDABILITY.
OWNERSHIP IS A CRITICAL ELEMENT
OF AFFORDABILITY AND WE'RE
EXCITED ABOUT THE COLLABORATION
ABOUT TO HAPPEN AT THREE FIFTY
S FIFTH BECAUSE THE CITY OWNED
THAT LAND.
WE ALSO BELIEVE IN COOPERATIVE
OWNERSHIP AS A SOLUTION FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT ABLE TO BUY
THE HOUSING WHERE THEY LIVE AND
WE ALSO BELIEVE IN LAND TRUSTS
THE ICC AND OTHERS AROUND THE
STATE RECENTLY FORMED THE
MICHIGAN COMMUNITY LAND CO-OP
TO BUY PROPERTIES FOR LOCAL
COOPERATIVES TO BE ABLE TO
OPERATE AT WHERE THEY WOULD OWN
WHAT THEY WOULD HAVE A STAKE IN
THE LAND TRUST SO THEY WOULD BE
SECURE WITH THE LANDLORD THAT
THEY WERE RENTING FROM.
AND I WANT TO ADD THAT RENTERS
EARNING EQUITY IN LAND TRUST
HOUSING ACTUALLY WORKS WITHOUT
SUBSIDY.
YOU CAN CHECK OUT RENTING
PARTNERSHIPS.
DOUG TO SEE MORE ABOUT THAT AND
CLEARLY THE CITIZENS OF ANN
ARBOR SUPPORT THE CREATION
OF MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
JUST LOOK AT THE MILEAGE THAT
WAS PASSED AND I WILL BE
FOLLOWING UP WITH EACH OF YOU
TO DISCUSS CREATIVE WAYS THAT
OTHER CITIES USE TO SUPPORT
LONG TERM AFFORDABILITY IN THE
COMING WEEKS.
I ASK THAT YOU PLEASE MEET WITH
US AND LET'S MAKE A DIFFERENCE
.
THANK YOU.
MAN CAN YOU PLEASE BRING YOUR
SIGN DOWN TO SHOULDER LEVEL?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M GOING ON THANK YOU FOR YOUR
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION
HUMAN BEING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION.
PLEASE BRING YOUR TEAM PLEASE
BRING YOUR SIDE TO SHOULDER
LEVEL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M JUST SAYING OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS ALAN GOODMAN.
SHAMEFUL
PART OF ME ADAM
GOODMAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
THIS ZOOM ADAM GOODMAN GO AHEAD
.
THIS IS ANDREW GOODMAN SPEAKING
FROM THE PORT.
I'M GOING TONIGHT ABOUT CSX
WHICH WOULD ALLOCATE FUNDING
FOR THE PATHWAY.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT BIKING AND
WALKING CONNECTION BETWEEN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT IS
VULNERABLE TO DEEP DISREPAIR IN
THIS AREA.
YOU NEED TO FIND AN APPROPRIATE
WAY TO GET A VEHICLE, SOMETHING
THAT OUR COMMUNITY CAN ACTUALLY
USE NOW DISAPPOINTED TO SEE
THAT A FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER
HAS AGAIN BEEN SPREADING THIS
INFORMATION ON THIS PRIVATE
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE HAVING NO
OBLIGATION TO MAINTAIN THIS
THAT I'M NOT GOING TO BE ACCESS
TO THE CITY'S PUBLIC LEGAL
MATTERS.
BUT IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THEY DO
HAVE SUCH AN OBLIGATION.
ONE EXAMPLE OF THIS WOULD BE
THAT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION TWO 1960S SAYS THE
PROPERTY OWNERS SHALL HAVE A
CONTINUING OBLIGATION TO
MAINTAIN THE REQUIRED SITE AND
BASICALLY ANYTHING THAT SHOWS
UP JUST LIKE THEM IN GOOD
CONDITION LIKE THE APPROVED
CYCLING PAVILION VILLAGE
CONDUCIVE CITY BUILDING RECORD
OUR SITE THE SITE DOES INCLUDE
THIS CAT SENSE.
I ALSO FOUND SOMETHING ELSE IS
INTERESTING A RECORD OF SOME
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE
CITY, THE DEVELOPER AND THE
CONTENT ASSOCIATION ALL THE WAY
BACK TO 1980 IN WHICH THE CITY
HAD TO TAKE ACTION TO COMPEL
CONSTRUCTION VERY FAST TO
ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH THE SITE
PLAN.
SO THIS ISN'T EVEN THE FIRST
TIME WE'VE HAD THIS ISSUE.
NOW I WANT TO SAY THIS THIS
PRINCIPLE ABOUT A CONTINUING
OBLIGATION TO MAINTAIN FEATURES
IS REALLY, REALLY IMPORTANT AND
THAT'S THE WORLD WHERE
DEVELOPERS DIDN'T HAVE SUCH AN
APPLICATION THE CITY ALL KINDS
OF PUBLIC AMENITIES AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN SOON AS
THE BUILDING WAS FINISHED AND
THE APPROVALS WERE DONE, THEY
OR THEIR SUCCESSORS OR EVEN
TEAR THEM DOWN AND MORE
SPECIFICALLY THERE ARE MANY
SIMILARLY SITUATED CROSS PATHS
INTO MUCH LIKE THIS ONE
PRIVATELY OWNED BUT PROVIDED
FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT ONE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT I USE ALL THE
TIME.
SO SETTING A PRECEDENT WHICH
SIMILARLY REPEATS THESE
PROPERTY OWNERS OFTEN WE'RE
TALKING BIG CORPORATE LANDLORDS
OF THEIR CONTINUING OBLIGATION
TO MAINTAIN THESE PATHWAYS.
WE'D BE DOING A HUGE DISSERVICE
TO OUR COMMUNITY, TO THE
TAXPAYERS OF THE CITY SO I WAS
INITIALLY TAKEN ABACK TO SEE
THIS RESOLUTION ON TONIGHT'S
AGENDA
WILL ALLOCATE
SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC FUNDS FOR
IT'S JUST POORLY MOTIVATED.
BUT THE RESOLUTION AND THE MEMO
I GUESS I'M CONVINCED THAT IN
THIS PARTICULAR SITUATION STAFF
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE
REACHED A REASONABLE CONCLUSION
AFTER CAREFUL CONSIDERATION THE
ACTIONS SPECIFICALLY IT SOUNDS
LIKE THIS PUBLIC INVESTMENT IN
THIRTY SECONDS ACTUALLY
REDESIGNED THE PATHWAY FOR ADA
COMPLIANCE, NOT JUST RESTORE IT
TO WHAT IT WAS.
SO I'LL SAY I CAUTIOUSLY
SUPPORT SUE TONIGHT AND I
CERTAINLY WANT TO TAKE THIS ONE
STEP FURTHER INTO CAREFUL WORK
ON THIS ISSUE.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO MAKE CLEAR
THAT THIS SHOULD NOT BE
CONSTRUED AS BROADER CHANGE IN
CITY POLICY OR PRECEDENT.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JAMES
NICHOLS.
HI, GOOD EVENING.
I'M JAMES NICHOLS, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
WASHINGTON AREA APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION.
I COME BEFORE YOU TODAY TO
ADDRESS CONCERNS ABOUT THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE
EARLY ORDINANCE.
OUR CONCERNS REVOLVE AROUND THE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES THAT
THESE AMENDMENTS MAY HAVE ON
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, THEIR
FAMILIES, TENANTS WHO ARE NOT
STUDENTS AND LOCALLY LOCAL
PROPERTY MANAGERS.
WE BELIEVE THAT THE AMENDMENTS
WILL CREATE CHALLENGES FOR ALL
PARTIES INVOLVED.
ONE OF OUR CONCERNS IS THE
FURTHER CONFINEMENT OF THE
STUDENT RENTAL PROCESS AND TO A
NARROW WINDOW OF JUST SIX WEEKS
BEFORE UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS
LEAVE FOR THEIR SUMMER BREAK,
WE ADVOCATE FOR MORE REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONS THAT ALLOW FOR
LEASE RENEWALS TO OCCUR AT ANY
TIME THE CURRENT TENANT WISHES
TO HAVE THOSE CONVERSATIONS
WITH OUR CURRENT HOUSING
PROVIDER.
HISTORICALLY OUR MEMBERS HAVE
OBSERVED THE MAJORITY
OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS AND
THEIR HOUSING SEARCH IN THE
FALL OFTEN AS EARLY AS
OCTOBER .
BY LIMITING THESE LEASING
WINDOWS TO SIX WEEKS WE RISK
CREATING HYSTERIA OVERWHELMING
THE DEMAND FROM STUDENT RENTERS
PARTICULARLY UNDERGRADUATES.
THIS IS MY PARTY MA'AM.
CAN YOU PLEASE KEEP YOUR SIGN
OUT OF THE WALKWAY?
THANK YOU SIR.
PLEASE CONTINUE.
THANK YOU.
MY APOLOGIES.
NO WORRIES BY LIMITING AT
LEASING WINDOW TO SIX WEEKS WE
CAN REQUEST CREATIVE MARKET A
LOT OF DEMAND FROM STUDENT
RENTERS PARTICULARLY UNDERGRADS
AND FAMILIES WHO SEEK TO SECURE
HOUSING BEFORE THE PRESSURES
OF EXAMS AND SUMMER BREAK.
OUR ABILITY TO PROVIDE QUALITY
HOUSING IN SUCH A SHORT IS ALSO
VERY CONCERNING.
WE BELIEVE THAT THE CONGRESS
SHOULD HAVE THE ABILITY TO
WAIVE THEIR RIGHT TO RENEW
ALLOWING THEIR ENTRY, ALLOWING
THEIR APARTMENTS TO SHOW TO BE
SHOWN IN THE FALL.
THIS PROVISION WOULD PROTECT
FROM INTRUSIVE CHALLENGED DOWN
EXAM TIMES IN THE SPRING
ESPECIALLY FOR SENIORS,
STUDENTS AND OTHERS WHO DO NOT
INTEND TO RENEW THEIR LEASES.
WE URGE THE COUNCIL TO
RECONSIDER THE REQUIREMENT FOR
HOUSING PROVIDERS TO
COMMUNICATE RENEWAL NOTICES VIA
MULTIPLE MEANS WHILE RESIDENTS
ARE ONLY REQUIRED TO RESPOND
THROUGH ONE CHANNEL.
THIS REQUIREMENT NOT ONLY POSES
LOGISTICAL CHALLENGES FOR US
BUT ALSO CONTRADICTS OUR
COLLECTIVE EFFORTS TOWARDS
SUSTAINABILITY PARTICULARLY AS
WE STRIVE TOWARDS A TWO ZERO
WROTE IN THE MISCONCEPTIONS WE
WANT TO EMPHASIZE OUR
COMMITMENT TO PROMOTING THESE
LEASE RENEWALS AND MINIMIZING
TURNOVER.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THEY ARE
NECESSARY REPRESENTS AFFORDABLE
EXPENSES FOR OUR PROPERTIES ALL
SEEKING IS A LONGER TIME FRAME
TO SPREAD THE RENEWAL LEASE
PERIOD OUT.
PLEASE CONSIDER ALLOWING US TO
SEND AN OFFICIAL NOTICE ON DAY
ONE TWENTY OF THE CURRENT LEASE
WHILE UNDERSTANDING THAT IF THE
LEASE IS NOT EXECUTED BY THE
180 DAYS WE CAN START WORKING
TO SECURE NEW TENANTS FOR THE
UNION.
WE URGE THE COUNCIL TO CONSIDER
THESE CONCERNS AND WORK TOWARDS
A SOLUTION THAT BALANCES THE
NEEDS OF THE CURRENT TENANTS
PROSPECTIVE TENANTS AND HOUSING
PROVIDERS A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF THE COMPETING
NEEDS OF THESE THREE GROUPS
COULD LEAD TO SOMETHING MORE
DURABLE IN THE FUTURE.
WASHINGTON AREA APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION AND ITS MEMBERS
WOULD BE HONORED TO COLLABORATE
IN THIS DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALVIN PWN.
HELLO.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND COUNCIL FOR
LETTING ME SPEAK TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS IVAN TUNE.
I'M A RESIDENT THIS COOPERATIVE
HOUSE ON STATE STREET IN THE
FIRST WARD WHICH IS PART OF THE
INNER COOPERATIVE COUNCIL.
THE ICC IS A DEMOCRATICALLY
OPERATED STUDENT COOPERATIVE
HOUSING.
WE COLLECTIVELY DETERMINE THE
ORGANIZATION'S EXPENSES AND
CHARGES AND EACH HOUSE LIKEWISE
COLLECTIVELY DECIDES THE
EXPENSES AND CHARGES WE POUR
MONEY FOR PURCHASES AND OUR
STEWARDSHIP ON BOTH THE HOUSE
AND ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL
PROVIDES AFFORDABLE AND SAFE
HOUSING.
HOWEVER, THERE ARE BARRIERS TO
THE ICS MISSION OPERATION AND
GOALS.
FIRSTLY, THE CURRENT ZONING
CODE MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR THE
ICC TO STEWARD OUR PROPERTIES
AND EXPAND.
STUDENT COOPERATIVES ARE NOT
PERMITTED IN ANY RESIDENTIAL
ZONES EXCEPT BY SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE IN EITHER THE ART
TO BE OR FOUR ZONES TO GET AN
SIU WITHIN THESE ZONES THERE
MUST EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT OF AREA
FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF FLOOR
AREA AND THREE HUNDRED FIFTY
SQUARE FEET OF LAW AREA PER
OCCUPANT.
MANY OF OUR PROPERTIES HAVE
BEEN GRANDFATHER INTO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUT OF THE 18
PROPERTIES ARE NON-COMPLIANT
WITH THE ZONING CODES
DISALLOWING US FROM PROLONGING
THE LIVES OF THESE PROPERTIES.
WHEN THE AVERAGE AGE OF AN ICC
OWNED HOUSE IS ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETEEN YEARS OLD THIS IS THIS
POSES SERIOUS HAZARDS AND THE
MOST EXTREME INSTANCE IN TWO
THOUSAND FOUR AND UNOCCUPIED
STEVEN'S HOUSE BURNED DOWN DUE
TO ZONING NONCOMPLIANCE.
THE ICC WAS NOT ALLOWED TO
REBUILD AND HAD TO SELL THE
PROPERTY REDUCING THE AMOUNT
OF HOUSING WE ARE ABLE TO
PROVIDE TO THE COMMUNITY IN
ORDER TO ADDRESS THESE CODES
THAT AT BEST PROVIDE BARRIERS
TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND AT
WORST POSE A SAFETY RISK TO
OURSELVES.
WE ASK YOU TO CONSIDER THE
FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS IN
ORDER TO BRING EXISTING ICC
PROPERTIES INTO ZONING
COMPLIANCE, WE RECOMMEND ZONING
REDUCING WHICH I RECOMMEND
REDUCING OR ELIMINATING THE
MINIMUM MINIMUMS FOR A LOT
OF SIZE AND SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR
THE STUDENT COOPERATIVE GROUP
HOUSING USERS AND FOR THE ARMED
FORCES THIS SEASON.
AND SECONDLY, WE WISH TO ENABLE
ICC EXPANSION INTENSIFICATION
IN ORDER TO FURTHER PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE RECOMMEND DOING THIS
PERMITTING SYSTEM COOPERATIVE
HOUSING RESIDENTIAL ZONES BY
RATE.
THIS WOULD PUT THE ICC ON A
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD WITH
INVESTORS AND ABSENTEE
LANDLORDS AS THE ICC CURRENTLY
HAS TO ENDURE EXTRA COSTS AND
DELAYS TO TO BE ALLOWED TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE UNITS IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES BY REQUIRING
A SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE PERMIT
.
SECONDLY, THE ICC ALSO REQUEST
TO BE PERMITTED TO OPERATE
GROUP HOUSING AND ARE ONE OR
TWO OR THREE ZONES IN THE
UNIVERSITY AND TRANSIT HUBS.
THERE IS A STRONGLY ENCOURAGE
THE CITY TO ELIMINATE THE
MAXIMUM NUMBER OF UNRELATED
PEOPLE ALLOWED TO SHARE A UNIT
IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO MEET TO
DISCUSS THIS IN MORE DETAIL
WITH YOU GUYS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM BRANDT
.
EVERYBODY SO WELL PREPARED.
I WANT TO SPEAK ON BEHALF
OF THE FAIR HIRING THE
RESOLUTION TO STRENGTHEN THE
ARE HIRING I MYSELF AM A
PRODUCT OF PEOPLE GIVING ME A
SECOND CHANCE.
I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF A
BRIGHTER WAY AND A LOT OF OUR
MEMBERS COME IN AND HAVE TO
PIECE THEIR LIVES BACK TOGETHER
THROUGH A BUNCH OF PART TIME
POSITIONS POSITIONS THAT NOBODY
ELSE WANTS TO FILL POSITIONS
THAT OFTEN REQUIRE THEM TO GO
BEYOND THE BUS LINES, TO WORK
TOGETHER TO FIND WAYS TO BE
ABLE TO GET TO WORK AND NOT BE
ABLE TO DO SOMETHING THAT IS
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT THAT THEY
CAN ACTUALLY BUILD THEIR LIFE
BACK ON.
SO RESOLUTIONS LIKE THIS NOT
ONLY SET THE TABLE FOR THE CITY
WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY A GOOD JOB
TO HAVE AND SOMETHING THAT
SOMEBODY CAN BUILD A LIFE ON
AND SOMETHING THAT THEY CAN
ACTUALLY BECOME A HOMEOWNER AND
PRODUCTIVE MEMBER OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
BUT IT ALSO PROVIDES A
GENERATIONAL COMPONENT THAT IS
OFTEN MISSING FROM REENTRY
AFTER INCARCERATION.
AS I SAID, I'M A PRODUCT
OF THIS.
I SERVED TWENTY SEVEN YEARS IN
THE MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
OF CORRECTIONS AND IN THE LAST
FOUR YEARS I'VE BEEN ABLE TO
WORK IN RECOVERY COMMUNITY, THE
REENTRY COMMUNITY AND I BELIEVE
SAVED THOUSANDS OF LIVES CHANGE
MAKE GENERATIONAL CHANGE TO
FAMILIES AND YOU GUYS ARE IN A
POSITION TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT
IN A WAY THAT I CAN'T POSSIBLY
DO.
SO IF I CAN DO THIS IN FOUR
YEARS I KNOW THAT RESOLUTION
LIKE THIS HAVE THE ABILITY TO
CHANGE THE WAY WE LOOK AT
EVERYTHING.
ANN ARBOR IS A PLACE THAT
PEOPLE LOOK TO FOR INNOVATION,
FOR WHAT IS POSSIBLE, FOR WHAT
CAN BE DONE AND FOR WHAT THE
FRUITS THAT YOU GET FROM THESE
THINGS ARE.
AND I'M STANDING HERE TODAY
BECAUSE I'M SHOWING YOU WHAT
THE FRUITS ARE.
I BRING SOMEBODY ELSE TOO BUT
HE'LL SPEAK TO HIS OWN
FRUITINESS.
THE POINT BEING IS IS THAT YOU
GUYS HAVE THE ABILITY TO MAKE A
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN PEOPLE'S
LIVES.
I'M NOT SAYING ANY OF THESE
OTHER THINGS ARE NOT A CHANGE
BUT FOR SOMEBODY WHO'S BEEN
INCARCERATED FOR DECADES, I
UNDERSTAND HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
TO PUT YOUR LIFE BACK TOGETHER.
BUT I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
MAJORITY OF US WANT THAT
OPPORTUNITY AND YOU HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO KIND PAVED THE
WAY.
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR ANYTHING
BUT AS THE ORDINANCE AS A FAIR
CHANCE SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AUTHOR
THOMAS FOLLOW THIS.
HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS AUTHOR THOMAS.
I AM A PRODUCT OF WHAT MR.
GRANT JUST GOT FINISHED TALKING
ABOUT.
I WAS ALSO INCARCERATED WHEN I
CAME OUT IT WAS TRYING TO FIND
ONE JOB AFTER ANOTHER MOST WAS
MENIAL WORK IN RESTAURANTS,
WASH DISHES AND I HAD THE
FORTUNE TO MEET A MAYOR
AT A
CHURCH AND WE COME IN AT EACH
OTHER ON THE SUITS THAT WE HAD
ON THAT DAY AND HE TOLD ME
ABOUT SOME DIFFERENT PROGRAMS
THAT THE CITY ABOUT HAD IN
PLACE AND THEN WHEN WE DID THE
WALK FROM TWENTY THREE
BRIDGEWORK WE HAD A LONG
CONVERSATION ABOUT IT.
SO I KNOW ANN ARBOR IS A
CHAMPION CHAMPION OF TRYING TO
GIVE SECOND CHANCES TO PEOPLE
THAT HAVE BEEN INCARCERATED.
I DO KNOW THAT I FOLLOWED YOUR
INSTRUCTIONS.
I DID EXACTLY WHAT YOU TOLD ME
TO DO.
I FILLED OUT MY APPLICATIONS.
I DID EVERYTHING I STARTED
WORKING FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN PARKS OR RECREATION AT
MY LIFE.
SO I KNOW EXACTLY WHAT ADAM
GRANT IS TALKING ABOUT GIVING
PEOPLE A SECOND CHANCE TO EARN
A DECENT LIVING IS SOMETHING
THAT WE ALL SHOULD BE PUSHING
FOR BECAUSE THE SYSTEM IS GOING
TO LET PEOPLE OUT OF PRISON AND
THEY'RE GOING TO COME HERE AND
IF YOU DON'T GIVE THEM A GOOD
JOB, THEY'RE GOING TO GO RIGHT
BACK TO DOING WHAT THEY WERE
DOING IN THE BEGINNING.
YOU WANT A CITY TO PROGRESS,
NOT DIGRESS.
SO WHEN THESE PEOPLE COME OUT,
IF YOU CAN HELP THEM FIND
GAINFUL MEANINGFUL EMPLOYMENT
IT WILL STOP THE RECIDIVISM
RATE ONE HUNDRED BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO STOP BEING
CRIMINALS UNTIL YOU CAN STOP
THEM FROM BEING CRIMINALS AND
ALL THE WAY TO DO THAT IS TO
GIVE THEM A MEANINGFUL JOB
BECAUSE YOU GOT JUST AS MANY
BAD PEOPLE JUST WAITING TO GET
A HOLD THAT GUY AND BRING HIM
BACK IN THE FALL OF SELLING
DOPE OR DOING WHATEVER HE WAS
DOING.
AND THE ONLY ONES THAT CAN STOP
THAT THE GOOD PEOPLE THEY'RE
SAYING WE DON'T GIVE YOU A JOB,
WE'RE GOING TO HELP YOU
MEANINGFUL GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT
SO YOU DON'T GO BACK TO PRISON
SO YOU DON'T SCARE CITIZENS
OF ARAB AND YOU MAKE US A ROLE
MODEL CITY TO LIVE IN.
AND LIKE I SAID, I APPRECIATE
EVERYTHING THAT YOU DID THE
CONTEXT THAT YOU TOLD ME TO
CALL.
I DID EVERY LAST ONE
OF UNFORTUNATELY I JUST HAD
BACK SURGERY.
I'VE BEEN SOMEWHAT OUT
OF COMMISSION AND I COULD GO
BACK TO THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
TO KEEP ALL TO ME EVERY OTHER
MONTH, ASK THEM TO COME BACK
AND I HAD IT THEN BECAUSE I
JUST HAD SURGERY LIKE HIM I AM
I DID CHANGE MY LIFE AROUND.
I'M ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FOR THE CITY OF MELBOURNE.
THE VENICE COMMISSION AND BY
THE WAY, THAT'S MY TIME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STUHLBARG
.
MR STOLLBERG IS JOINING US ON
THE PHONE NUMBER FIVE THREE
FOUR FOUR FOUR STAR SIX FROM
YOUR HOME
MR STOBER PHONE
NUMBER FIVE THREE FOUR
SIR OVER
PHONE NUMBER FIVE THREE FOUR
COMPRESS ON MUTE.
GO AHEAD.
OH, I WOULD COUNT ON ME AND I
WOULD LIKE ABOUT A COUPLE
OF ONE IS ABOUT THE AUDIENCE
CHANNEL FIVE HURRICANE KATRINA
.
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
CLARIFYING THE LANGUAGE THAT
SECTION IT WAS A BIT CONFUSING.
NO REAL PLAN THERE.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS THAT KIND
OF NEAT ABOUT THE MACRO BUT ONE
INTERPRETATION THAT A ONE PAGE
THAT HELP BUT EVEN THAT WAS
CONFUSING LANGUAGE IS VERY
HELPFUL AND I APPRECIATE THAT
AS PART OF THE CONTENT OF SOME
OF THE NEW YOU, I REMIND YOU
THAT WE HAVE THE NUMBER
OF RENTERS AND THAT THEY ARE
BELOW PAR POSITION AMONG AND I
THINK THE AVERAGE SMALL
BUSINESS PERSON I DON'T HAVE A
LOT OF POINT DUE TO THEIR BUT I
APPRECIATE YOU RESPECTING THE
FACT THE RENTERS TO OUR PEOPLE.
IF I WANT TO REMIND EVERYBODY
WE HAD CHANGE THAT MADE IT SO
THAT I WOULD NOT HAVE
AFFORDABLE HAVING FUN THERE A
LOT LONGER THAN WE HAVE TIME
FOR RIGHT NOW.
BUT WE CAN CHANGE THAT AND
LET'S ASSUME THAT THEY WERE
CORRECT.
IT WOULD BE A BIG PROBLEM THAT
HORSERACES THEY WERE THEY WERE
GOING TO BE OK.
I'M NOT CONTRIBUTE TO THE
AFFORDABLE FUND AS PART OF THAT
THEY WOULD UNDER THE OLD LAW
HAVE A BIT OF TIME FOR THEM
STUDENT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT BUT
THEY WANTED TO WITH THAT WERE
YEARS AGO THEY WERE NOT ABLE TO
DECIDED THAT WE WANTED TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THE PRIVATE
LAND AND OUR DEVELOPING
DEVELOPMENT.
AS WE KNOW WE HAVE A LUXURY
HOUSING CRISIS SO OUR POWER TO
THEM THEY DID SAY THAT THEY
MIGHT NOT THEY MIGHT HAVE HAD
TROUBLE FINANCING IT IF THEY
HAD FOLLOWED THE OLD QUESTION
THAT MIGHT BE A DEVELOPER.
YOU DON'T USUALLY GET TO DEFINE
THE PROPERTY WITHOUT BEING
KNOWING WHAT THE PROJECT MEANT
TO YOU THAT AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
GOING DOWN THAT PROPERTY THE HE
SAID IT WOULD WHEN PEOPLE ON
COUNCIL THE TIME ARE CONCERNED
THAT IT MIGHT THAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED.
THEY FOLLOW THE LAW IN THE CASE
THE LOWERTOWN THE NINE THREE
THREE THREE THE LARGEST
CONTRIBUTOR I WOULD CONTRIBUTE
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
PROPERLY WE THOUGHT THAT I
REMIND YOU THAT THE OFF THE
STREET FROM THE WILLIAM WE'RE
GOING TO PUT IN UNITS
OF PORTABLE HOUSING AND
HOPEFULLY IF WE GET DEVELOPERS
TO TAKE THAT WE'VE GOT TO ADD
THAT MANY OF OUR TOWN NOW BUT
WHEN WE CHANGE OUR THANK YOU
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
GOOD EVENING.
SINCE FEBRUARY HAS BEEN
DESIGNATED BLACK HISTORY MONTH,
ANN ARBOR STUDENTS MIGHT BE
TAUGHT ABOUT OLYMPIC GOLD
MEDALIST JESSE OWENS.
JESSE COMPETED IN THE NINETEEN
THIRTY SIX OLYMPIC GAMES IN
BERLIN DESPITE EFFORTS BY THE
AMERICAN JEWISH CONGRESS AND
THE JEWISH LABOR COMMITTEE TO
CHANGE A LOCATION TO SOME OTHER
VENUE THE MOST OFTEN REPEATED
STORY FROM THAT COMPETITION IS
THAT ADOLF HITLER REFUSED TO
SHAKE THE HANDS OF POLAND AFTER
HE HAD RUN A RACE.
THE HEADLINE IN THE NEW YORK
TIMES READ HITLER IGNORES
MEDALIST'S THE BLACK OWNED
CLEVELAND NEWSPAPER CALL AND
POST RAN THEIR OWN HEADLINE
HITLER SNUBS JESSE THE
BALTIMORE AFRO-AMERICAN ROBED
ADOLF SNUBS US LADS IN HIS BOOK
THE MYTH OF GERMAN VILLAINY
ARTHUR ARTHUR BRENTON BRADBURY
SETS THE RECORD STRAIGHT FOR US
WRITING ABOUT THESE HEADLINES.
THEY WERE THEY WERE DELIBERATE
LIES.
NOTHING OF THE KIND HAPPENED.
THE REAL STORY WAS THAT HITLER
WAS TOLD BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE
THAT HE HAD VIOLATED OLYMPIC
PROTOCOLS BY SHAKING HANDS WITH
THE GERMAN ATHLETE HANS VOLKE
AND RECEIVING OTHER ATHLETES
BOTH GERMAN AND NON GERMAN IN
HIS VIP BOOTH THE DAY BEFORE.
SO THAT DAY IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THE PROTOCOLS HE SHOOK NOBODY'S
HAND, INCLUDING JESSE OWENS
FROM THE BOOK THE JESSE OWENS
STORY.
JESSE HIMSELF IS QUOTED AS
SAYING WHEN I PASS THE
CHANCELLOR HEROES WAVED HIS
HAND AT ME AND I WAVED BACK AT
HIM.
I THINK THE WRITERS SHOWED BAD
TASTE IN CRITICIZING THE MAN
OF THE HOUR IN GERMANY AND FAR
FROM BEING SNUBBED BY GERMANY'S
POPULATION AUTHOR RICHARD
MANDELE ALSO HELPS SET THE
RECORD STRAIGHT.
HE WRITES IN HIS BOOK THE NAZI
OLYMPICS ONCE AT THE STADIUM
THE MERE APPEARANCE OF JESSE
OWENS IS HEAD FROM SOME PIT
BELOW THE STANDS WOULD CAUSE
SECTIONS OF THE CROWD TO BREAK
OUT IN CHANTS OF USA.
OH VINCE YES WOVENS THE REAL
SNUBBING OF JESSE OWENS CAME AT
THE HANDS OF FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT
WHO WAS RUNNING FOR REELECTION
AND REFUSED TO RECEIVE JESSE AT
THE WHITE HOUSE BECAUSE
ROOSEVELT THOUGHT THE REACTION
FROM SOUTHERN STATES WOULD HARM
HIS CHANCES OF VICTORY.
THE JOB OF THE HISTORICAL
REVISIONIST IS TO SET THE
RECORD STRAIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX
ZILLMAN
.
HELLO.
HELLO I'M ALEX ADELMAN AND I
LIVE IN WARD TWO ON WASHINGTON
AVENUE TRUTH HOUSE IN THE ICC.
I GRADUATED FROM THE FORD
SCHOOL ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO AND
I'M CURRENTLY A NON STUDENT.
THE ICC IS PROVIDED PERMANENTLY
AFFORDABLE DEMOCRATIZE STUDENT
HOUSING FOR OVER 80 YEARS
THOUGH THE ICC IS PRIMARILY
MADE UP OF UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENTS, WE ALSO SERVE MANY
GRADUATE STUDENTS STUDENTS FROM
WCC AN EASTERN INDIAN STUDENTS
.
THE ICC HAS ALSO BEGUN
IDENTIFYING AND PRIORITIZING
APPLICANTS WHO DEMONSTRATE
FINANCIAL NEED DURING CONTRACT
SIGNING ICC IN-HOUSE CHARGES
TYPICALLY AMOUNT TO ABOUT EIGHT
HUNDRED TWENTY DOLLARS A MONTH
FOR SOCIALIZED HOUSING,
UTILITIES, GROCERIES AND
EDUCATIONAL AND LEADERSHIP
OPPORTUNITIES.
WE ALSO PROVIDE NEED SURCHARGE
REDUCTIONS TO THOSE WHO QUALIFY
WITHOUT THE ICC I WOULD NOT BE
ABLE TO AFFORD TO STAY IN ANN
ARBOR CITY AND COMMUNITY I HAVE
DEVELOPED A DEEP ATTACHMENT TO
FOR THE PAST SIX YEARS SPEAKING
WITH YOU TONIGHT TO SHARE OUR
STRUGGLE TO EXPAND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING OPTIONS IN ANN ARBOR
HISTORICALLY THE ICC IS
EXPANDED BY PURCHASING SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES AND STUDENT RENTAL
PROPERTIES AND INTERNALLY
DENSIFYING THEM AS GROUP
HOUSING.
HOWEVER, HALF OF OUR PROPERTIES
ARE GRANDFATHERED AS THEY
AREN'T COMPLIANT WITH THE
CURRENT ZONING STANDARDS FOR
STUDENT COOPERATIVES PRIMARILY
FOR AREA AND LARGE SIZE
MINIMUMS SET IN PLACE SO THAT
WAY WE MAY ONLY OPERATE HOMES
THAT RESEMBLE LARGE CREEK LIFE
HOUSES.
WE CAN'T OPERATE A NEW
NON-COMPLIANT PROPERTY WITH
MORE THAN SIX UNRELATED
RESIDENTS MAKING MANY EXPANSION
OPPORTUNITIES INFEASIBLE IF WE
WISH TO REMAIN BELOW MARKET
RATE WE ARE UNABLE TO FIND NEW
PROPERTIES TO EXPAND INTO THAT
MEET OUR ZONING STANDARDS AS
GROUP LIVING AND ARE ROUTINELY
FORCED TO REJECT OPPORTUNITIES
TO EXPAND INTO NON-COMPLIANT
PROPERTIES ON THE MARKET.
EVEN IF WE WERE TO FIND A
COMPLIANT PROPERTY CONDITIONAL
USE REQUIREMENTS FOR US TO JUMP
THROUGH ADDITIONAL HOOPS AND
EXPAND RESOURCES BEFORE EVEN
KNOWING IF WE WILL BE ALLOWED
TO OPERATE A NEW PROPERTY IF
THESE ZONING RESTRICTIONS HAD
EXISTED IN NINETEEN THIRTY AND
WE WOULD NEVER HAVE BEEN
ESTABLISHED LET ALONE EXIST
TODAY WE HAVE A LIST OF ASSETS
TO MAKE OUR PROPERTIES
COMPLIANT AND TO MAKE OUR
EXPANSION FEASIBLE.
THE ICC ALSO CALLS ON THE CITY
TO REIGNITE THE EXPANSION
OF AFFORDABLE STUDENT HOUSING
BY MAKING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUNDS AVAILABLE TO PERMANENTLY
AFFORDABLE STUDENT HOUSING.
INVESTIGATE BY INVESTIGATING
THE UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD
OVERWEIGH ORDINANCE FROM
AUSTIN, TEXAS HAS GENERATED
MORE AFFORDABLE STUDENT HOUSING
THAN ALL OTHER AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROGRAMS IN THE CITY
OF BOSTON COMBINED.
IN ADDITION, WE REQUEST THAT
THE CITY ESTABLISH THE TENANTS
RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL TO
PURCHASE THEIR HOME FROM THEIR
LANDLORD AND INVESTIGATE THE
TENANT OPPORTUNITY TO PURCHASE
ACT IN WASHINGTON DC WE HAVE
INFO PACKETS WITH MORE
INFORMATION FOR ALL OF YOU LIKE
TO MEET WITH ALL OF YOU TO
DISCUSS IN MORE DETAIL.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH MCKEE
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
I SPOKE TO YOU AFTER THE
PRESENTATION ON ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT LAST WEEK SO THESE
POINTS WILL PROBABLY BE
FAMILIAR TO YOU.
HOPEFULLY SOME MORE PEOPLE IN
THE PUBLIC TUNE IN TONIGHT AND
CAN THINK ABOUT THEM TO I'M
INTRIGUED FIRST BY THE PROPOSAL
TO ACQUIRE RIGHTS OF FIRST
REFUSAL OR ACTIONS AND PARCELS
IN ORDER TO HAVE A CHANCE TO
CONTROL WHAT'S BUILT ON THEM
DURING THE TC STADIUM DC ONE ON
STADIUM DEBATE I ADVOCATED
USING THAT APPROACH RATHER THAN
USING THE MORE BLUNT TALK ONE
APPROACH AND AND I THINK THAT'S
A VALUABLE THING TO DO HERE.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER PARTS
OF THE PROPOSAL THAT I HAVE
SERIOUS CONCERNS ABOUT AND
THOSE I'D INVITE FOLKS TO
CONSIDER HOW THE SEASIDE RESORT
PROPOSAL WOULD HAVE BEEN
HANDLED IF THIS ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT APPROACH HAD BEEN
IN PLACE.
AS I'VE SAID BEFORE THAT I
THINK THE SITE PROPOSAL IS
HANDLED IN SECRET FOR FAR TOO
LONG AND IT SHOWED THAT THIS
BODY, THE CITY ATTORNEY AND
OTHER STAFF MAY VALUE SECRECY
MORE THAN TRANSPARENCY.
WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT
TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC INPUT
FROM THIS BODY BUT ACTIONS
SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
I'M CONCERNED THAT THAT
PROPOSAL WOULD HAVE BEEN HELD
UNDER WRAPS OR EVEN LONGER
UNDER THIS NEW ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL THAT'S
GOING IN THE WRONG DIRECTION.
NEXT I WOULD CHANGE THAT IS
CHANGING THE CHARTER TO A
SIMPLE MAJORITY TO SELL
PROPERTY HAVE AFFECTED HOW THAT
PROPOSAL IS HANDLED.
COUNCIL MEMBER AYAR SAYS IT
WOULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN THE SIX
VOTES FOR APPROVAL AND MAYBE
HE'S RIGHT.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE NEXT
CONTROVERSIAL PROPOSAL OR ONE
MADE TO A DIFFERENT COUNCIL
YEARS FROM NOW?
FURTHER, I'M PRETTY SURE THAT
HAVING NEARLY A 60 VOTE
REQUIREMENT WOULD HAVE ALLOWED
THAT PROPOSAL TO GET MUCH
FURTHER ALONG BEFORE BEING
REJECTED, WASTING DOZENS
OF HOURS OF STAFF TIME IN MANY
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN COUNCIL
FEES, MAYBE YOU COULD THINK
ABOUT A THRESHOLD ABOVE WHICH A
SUPERMAJORITY IS REQUIRED MAYBE
A SEVEN TO FOUR VOTE
REQUIREMENT.
AND I'M ALSO VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE LACK OF COMPETITIVE
PROCESS MENTIONED IN THE
PRESENTATION LAST COUNCIL
MEMBER I AND TWO OTHERS
SUGGESTED THAT PROCESS
REGARDING THIS PROPOSAL AND
THAT GOT SHOT DOWN HERE EIGHT
TO THREE COUNCIL MEMBER I SAID
TODAY AND I APPRECIATE HER
ENGAGING IN NEXT DOOR THAT THAT
WILL BE CONSIDERED WHEN YOU GET
TO THE DETAILS.
TO ME THAT'S NOT A DETAIL
THAT'S ESSENTIAL TO GET WHAT
YOU WANT BILL OR TO GET TOP
FOUR FOR A SALE.
SO I HOPE YOU CONSIDER THOSE
POINTS BEFORE FINALIZING AND
VOTING ON THE PROPOSAL AND I
HOPE TO NOT HEAR WHICH I'VE
HEARD A LOT OF TIMES HERE
BEFORE PASS NOW I'LL FIX IT
LATER.
THAT'S NOT THE RIGHT WAY TO
GOVERN.
I'D LIKE TO SEE IT COME OUT NOW
FINALLY I WOULD REALLY HOPE
THAT IN THE TRYING TO SPEED UP
THE PROCESS THAT THE FOCUS IS
ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
RENOVATION AS WELL AS BIG
PICTURE LARGE LARGE DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE I'VE HEARD HORROR STORY
AFTER HORROR STORY FROM PEOPLE
ABOUT THE COST OF WATER TAPS
AND SO ON AND I WOULD REALLY
LIKE TO SEE THAT DEALT WITH AS
WELL AS LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOJANG
SOMERBY.
IT'S A FUNNY OK FOR ALL
OF THOSE YOU GUYS WHO ARE HERE
TO TALK ABOUT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND BEGGING THIS GROUP
TO GIVE YOU A BREAK AND MAKE
SOME POLICIES SO THAT IT WOULD
BENEFIT THE PUBLIC WAKE UP THIS
GROUP DOES NOT COMMIT TO THE
PUBLIC.
THEIR COMMITMENT IS THERE TO
THE GUYS WHO PAID FOR THEIR
ELECTIONS AND NOW THEY'VE BEEN
PUTTING THEIR COMMITMENT IS TO
MAKE SURE THOSE GUYS BENEFIT
FROM THEM SITTING HERE.
I'VE HAD MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
TO TAKE CARE OF THIS HOUSING
CRISIS.
I NEVER HAVE A REAL ONE FORCED
THEM TO DO IT IS THE WAY WE DID
IT.
THE PEOPLE HERE WE CHANTED AND
THE PARTY HAS A MISSION THAT
SAYS CEASE FIRE IN GAZA POSTUM
ASK THEM NOT IT THEY ARE TO
BENEFIT THOSE WHO TO SIT WHERE
THEY'RE SITTING THAT IS THE
DEVELOPERS EVERYBODY KNOWS.
NO, I'M TO ORGANIZE AND NO,
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE IT.
I'M GOING TO SAY SHAMEFULLY THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT VETOED
TO STOP THE GOVERNMENT AND TELL
THE WORLD A GENOCIDAL MANIACS
AND ISRAEL TO ADD MORE CHILDREN
NATIVE AMERICANS AMERICANS DO
NOT WANT ANOTHER PENNY OF THEIR
DOLLARS TO THEIR TAXES TO GO TO
THE NAZI STATE OF ISRAEL, STOP
STOP TO THAT AND MANY OF THEM
COSTING YOU SOMEWHERE WHO CAN'T
EVEN STAND A SIGN THAT SAYS
THIS IS IT ISRAEL
AGAIN TO PASS
A RESOLUTION THAT SAYS MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL IS HAVE HIGHER
EDUCATION, HEALTH AND PROGRAMS
TO FIGHT AND YOU GUYS WANT TO
PAY ANOTHER PENNY.
WE'RE GOING TO COME AND SPEAK
UP BECAUSE REPRESENTING US WE
SHOULD BE SAYING IT IS
HEARTLESS HAVE MARKS AND YOU DO
NOT CARE FOR PEOPLE OF PEOPLE
OF PALESTINE.
I SHOULD SAY IT BECAUSE THE IT
BECAUSE THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES OF US
AND I'M NOT THAT BUT I THINK
YOU OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PLAIN
COMMON
.
WE SHOULD ALL KNOW THAT IT'S A
BAD BAD THING TO DENY A
GENOCIDE.
WE SHOULD ALL KNOW HITLER
KILLED SIX MILLION JEWS TWENTY
YEARS AND HE KILLED
TWENTY
SEVEN MILLION PEOPLE IN THE
SOVIET UNION AND KILLED MANY
GYPSIES AND MANY HOMOSEXUALS.
WE SHOULD ALL KNOW THAT WE
SHOULD ALL KNOW IT'S VERY BAD
TO DENY GENOCIDE.
YOU KNOW THIS WHICH IS VERY BAD
TO FINANCE THE GENOCIDE WHICH
IS WHAT ISRAEL IS COMMITTING
RIGHT NOW WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS
AND THIS IS NOT NEWS TO ANY
OF YOU.
YOU'VE HEARD HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
COMING TO THE CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBER OVER THE LAST FEW
MONTHS TELLING YOU ALL THE GORY
DETAILS, ALL THE MANY, MANY
THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS
MURDERED BY ISRAEL
, 100000
PALESTINIANS EITHER KILLED OR
WOUNDED OR BURIED UNDER RUBBLE
AND VIOLENCE BY YOUR TAX
DOLLARS AND BY THE GRACE
OF YOUR POLITICAL SUPPORT TO
ISRAEL.
YOU KNOW YOU HAVE TO STOP THAT
SUPPORT ISRAEL.
YOU KNOW HOW BAD IT MAKES YOU
LOOK.
YOU KNOW, BAD IT MAKES YOUR
PARTY THE DEMOCRATIC.
YOU KNOW THAT BIDEN IS ALREADY
POLITICALLY RUINED BECAUSE
OF HIS SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL IN
THIS GENOCIDE.
I HOPE HE LIVES LONG ENOUGH TO
GO TO THE MORGUE AND BE
IMPRISONED FOR THE REST OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE FOR FINANCING AND
SUPPORTING THIS MASS MURDER
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
.
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE IN THAT
KIND OF POSITION YOURSELF.
KIND OF POLITICAL POSITION
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE IN THAT
YOURSELF A RESOLUTION AGAINST
KIND OF POLITICAL POSITION
MILITANT TO ISRAEL.
YOURSELF A RESOLUTION AGAINST
OH, FOR THESE COUNCIL CHAMBERS
MILITANT TO ISRAEL.
TO BE PACKED WITH PEOPLE
OH, FOR THESE COUNCIL CHAMBERS
DEMANDING RESOLUTION AGAINST
TO BE PACKED WITH PEOPLE
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
DEMANDING RESOLUTION AGAINST
I WAIT FOR THAT TIME AN AWFUL
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
LOT OF PALESTINIANS ARE GOING
I WAIT FOR THAT TIME AN AWFUL
TO BE KILLED IF YOU SIT AND
LOT OF PALESTINIANS ARE GOING
WAIT FOR THAT TIME.
TO BE KILLED IF YOU SIT AND
BUT IF YOU DO SO EVENTUALLY THE
WAIT FOR THAT TIME.
ROOM HERE WILL BE FILLED AGAIN
BUT IF YOU DO SO EVENTUALLY THE
WITH PEOPLE WHO ARE OUTRAGED
ROOM HERE WILL BE FILLED AGAIN
THAT YOUR TAX DOLLARS AND YOUR
WITH PEOPLE WHO ARE OUTRAGED
POLITICAL SUPPORT ARE HELPING
THAT YOUR TAX DOLLARS AND YOUR
ISRAEL TO PLAY INTO THE HANDS
POLITICAL SUPPORT ARE HELPING
OF REBEL 100000 PALESTINIANS.
ISRAEL TO PLAY INTO THE HANDS
THAT INCLUDES COUNCIL MEMBER
OF REBEL 100000 PALESTINIANS.
JANAYA WHO TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY
THAT INCLUDES COUNCIL MEMBER
FROM OLD FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL
JANAYA WHO TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY
DEFENSE FORCES.
FROM OLD FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL
THAT INCLUDES ALL OF YOU.
DEFENSE FORCES.
THANK YOU.
THAT INCLUDES ALL OF YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
THANK YOU.
FROM COUNCIL
COLONEL THAT
COMING ON STRONG?
I WANT TO JUST BRIEFLY
MENTIONED I KNOW THAT IT IS
RIVETING PUBLIC POLICY
TELEVISION TO WATCH THE LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY
MEETINGS BUT A COUPLE OF REALLY
EXCITING THINGS HAPPENED AT
THAT MEETING THIS WEEK
ALLOCATING STATE FUNDING TO TWO
NEW INITIATIVES THE TECH
ECOSYSTEM PROGRAM AND THE GREEN
BUSINESS CHALLENGE.
I THINK THAT THESE ARE TWO
IMPORTANT NEW ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT TOOLS TO HELP
BUSINESSES GROW, CREATE JOBS
AND ADD VITALITY TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
VERY BRIEFLY, THE GREEN
BUSINESS CHALLENGE IS A
CERTIFICATION PROGRAM TO
PROMOTE AND GROW SUSTAINABILITY
ACCOMPLISHMENTS WHILE ALSO
PROMOTING ANN ARBOR AS A
SUSTAINABILITY LEADER AND THE
IDEAL LOCATION FOR
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUSED
BUSINESSES.
THIS IS A PROGRAM THAT WILL BE
RUN BY THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
HERE AT THE CITY AND WILL HELP
LOCAL BUSINESSES BUILD MORE
SUSTAINABLE CULTURE, ENHANCE
EMPLOYEE AND CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION AND REDUCE THEIR
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINTS.
THE BASIC I THINK MECHANISM FOR
US IS THAT IT WILL PROVIDE A
TOOLKIT TO PROMOTE MORE
SUSTAINABLE BEHAVIORS BY
ENCOURAGING THE CREATION
OF SUSTAINABILITY PLANS
PROVIDING SUSTAINABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY RELATED
IMPLEMENTATION, GUIDANCE AND
RESOURCES AND PROVIDING ACTUAL
CERTIFICATION AND RATING SYSTEM
THAT WILL HELP BUSINESSES WHO
CHOOSE TO GO THROUGH THIS GREEN
BUSINESS CHALLENGE STAND OUT
FROM COMPETITORS NOT ONLY IN
TERMS OF ATTRACTING TALENT BUT
CUSTOMERS AS WELL.
AND SIMILARLY THE SECOND
INITIATIVE AGAIN THAT WAS
FUNDED WITH SOME STATE FUNDING
IS THE DITECH ECOSYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
IT'S A COMMUNITY COLLABORATION
BETWEEN THE CITY AND WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOCUSED ON
SUPPORTING EARLY STAGE SOCIALLY
AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED
INDIVIDUALS OR CITY FOUNDERS.
THE PROGRAM WILL RECRUIT
ENTREPRENEURS AND CONNECT THESE
FOUNDERS WITH CONSULTANTS AND
MENTORS WHO HAVE AN ESTABLISHED
BRAND WORKING WITH CITY
COMMUNITIES AND ARE COMMITTED
TO COMMITTED TO BUILDING A MORE
INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE
COMMUNITY FOR THE BROADER
REGION.
THE PROGRAM LAYS THE GROUNDWORK
SO THAT THESE FOUNDERS ARE
POSITIONED TO CAPITALIZE ON
RESOURCES OFFERED THROUGH
ECOSYSTEM PARTNERS LIKE THE
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
CORP. IT WILL TEACH THE
FOUNDATIONS OF FINANCE, PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT, VENTURE CAPITAL
SALES, HOW TO PITCH FUNDERS HOW
TO RUN A BOARD MEETING IN A
CITY FOUNDERS WITH ADDITIONAL
SMALL GRANTS TO FILL IN
RESOURCE GAPS AND FACILITATE
THE GROWTH OF MORE SUCCESSFUL,
IMPACTFUL STARTUP BUSINESSES IN
THE COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY WITHIN
THOSE DISADVANTAGED
POPULATIONS.
SO TO GREAT DEVELOPMENTS
CUTTING STATE FUNDING TO USE TO
HELP GROW THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND
PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY AND
MINORITY OWNED BUSINESSES AT
THE SAME TIME COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS THANK YOU.
WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THAT NEXT
SUNDAY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
AND I WILL BE HAVING WARD FIVE
LISTENING OUR ON SUNDAY
FEBRUARY TWENTY FIFTH FROM THAT
FOUR P.M. AT THE ARTS CENTER
ALSO WANTED TO THANK THE FOLKS
THAT CAME OUT FROM THE INNER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL AND I LOVE
THE SET RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
WERE PROVIDED TO US.
I'LL BE FOLLOWING UP WITH THEM.
I KNOW THEY'RE OUT OF THE OUT
OF THIS ROOM RIGHT NOW BUT I
WELCOME ANYBODY ELSE WHO WANTS
TO JOIN IN FOR A CONVERSATION.
I THINK THEY PRESENTED A LOT
OF GOOD ADVICE THERE.
SO THANKS FOR THAT.
AND THEN FINALLY WE DON'T
USUALLY DO THIS SINCE WE HAD A
COMMENTER SPEAK TO HOW WE DON'T
ACTUALLY LISTEN TO THE
COMMUNITY.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THERE'S A REASON THAT THE
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE ARE NO
LONGER IN THIS IN THESE
CHAMBERS.
THE PALESTINIAN ACTIVIST HAVE
CERTAINLY SEPARATED THEMSELVES
AND DISTANCE THEMSELVES FROM A
COUPLE OF MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMUNITY.
AND FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD YOU
ARE NOT STRONG REPRESENTATIVES
OF THAT COMMUNITY.
SO THERE'S A REASON YOU'RE
STANDING ALONE TODAY.
COUNCILOR RACKMAN, THANK YOU.
ALSO AGAIN, MY APPRECIATION FOR
THE INTER COOPERATIVE COUNCIL
COMING TODAY AND I WOULD BE
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP TO I LIVED
IN TWO CO-OPS IN EAST LANSING
SO I KNOW HOW IMPORTANT THAT IS
TO OUR AFFORDABILITY PICTURE
FOR STUDENT HOUSING.
I ALSO WANTED TO SAY THAT THIS
WEEKEND I ATTENDED THE BIKE
SUMMIT WHICH IS IN ITS NINTH
YEAR AND THIS IS A FORUM WHERE
LOCAL BIKE ADVOCATES I MEAN
HONESTLY THE UMBRELLA HAS
GOTTEN MUCH BIGGER.
IT'S REALLY ABOUT TRANSIT
ADVOCATES GET TOGETHER TO TALK
ABOUT HOW TO MAKE WASHTENAW
COUNTY A BETTER PLACE TO BIKE,
WALK AND GET AROUND IN ALL
KINDS OF WAYS.
ONE OF THE BREAKOUT SESSIONS
THERE WAS LED BY A LOCAL
ADVOCACY GROUP THAT YOU HEARD
KIND OF BRIEFLY ABOUT WHEN WE
HAD THE PRESENTATION ON THE
RIDE TRAINS NOT LANES.
THEY FORMED TO OPPOSE THE
WIDENING OF US TWENTY THREE
BETWEEN NINETY FOUR AND
FOURTEEN THAT RUNS BETWEEN ANN
ARBOR AND IPSI AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THIS IDEA ALSO
VOICED ITS OPPOSITION TO LATE
LAST YEAR AND I REALLY HOPE
THAT THAT TAKES SERIOUSLY THE
CONSIDERATION OF INVESTING IN
MASS TRANSIT INSTEAD
OF ADDITIONAL LANES WHICH WE
CANNOT AFFORD AS A STATE NOR
WHICH WILL SOLVE THE PROBLEM
OF CONGESTION.
WE KNOW OUR STATE'S POPULATION
IS IN DECLINE.
WE CAN'T RETAIN YOUNG PEOPLE.
WE'VE CONSISTENTLY FAILED TO
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WHO
WANT OPTIONS THAT GO BEYOND
DRIVING.
SO LET'S START INVESTING IN
THINGS THAT PROMOTE ECONOMY
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE
LIVABILITY OF OUR STATE AND I
REALLY WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO THE LEADERSHIP
OF OUR TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
FOR THE PRESS RELEASE OFFERING
TO PARTNER WITH THEM THAT I
CERTAINLY WOULD LOVE TO WORK ON
A RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT
OF THAT.
SO I APPRECIATE BRINGING IT
FORWARD AND I THINK THIS IS THE
KIND OF LEADERSHIP AND
COLLABORATION THAT WE NEED AND
I REALLY HOPE AND WE'LL BE
URGING HIM TO TAKE THE RIGHT UP
ON ITS OFFER FURTHER
COMMUNICATION.
KAZMIR HARRISON, THANK YOU.
OVER THE WEEKEND ON SATURDAY I
ATTENDED WELL HAPPY BLACK
HISTORY MONTH AGAIN ON
CREATED AT THE JAMES L.
CRAWFORD ELKS ELKS LODGE ANNUAL
BLACK HISTORY LUNCHEON THINKING
OF WHY WE HAVE A BLACK ELKS
ORGANIZATION MADE ME THINK MORE
ABOUT SEGREGATIONIST PAST AND
THE BARRIERS THAT BLACK PEOPLE
FACED AND TO SOME EXTENT
CONTINUE TO FACE IN MAKING A
HOME IN THE CITY.
RACIALLY RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
LEFT US WITH A LEGACY
OF SEGREGATION.
THESE PRACTICES FOUND SUBTLE
WAYS TO PERSIST THROUGH
UNWRITTEN POLICIES THEY
CIRCUMVENTED LEGAL BOUNDARIES
BUT ACHIEVE THE SAME
EXCLUSIONARY EFFECTS.
PITTSFIELD VILLAGE, FOR
EXAMPLE, WAS A SITE OF RACIAL
EXCLUSION.
THE VILLAGE BOASTED BEAUTIFUL
APARTMENTS, METICULOUS
LANDSCAPING AND ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL GROCERY STORE AND THE
BUS LINE.
IT WAS DESIGNED TO FACILITATE
THE LIVES OF WORKERS AT THE
WILLOW RUN PLANT, MAKING IT A
HIGHLY DESIRABLE PLACE TO LIVE
FOR EVERYONE.
THERE WASN'T A COVENANT BUT
BLACKS WERE NOT ALLOWED THIS
DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE DESPITE
A COMMUNITY PETITION SIGNALING
READINESS FOR INTEGRATION
UNDERSCORES THE DEPTH OF THE
RACISM THEY WERE UP AGAINST THE
EXCLUSION EXCLUSION FUELED
PROTESTS, MARCHES TO CITY HALL
AND HE NEEDED DIALOG ABOUT THE
RACISM EMBEDDED IN OUR HOUSING
SYSTEMS.
THIS LED TO THE FORMATION
OF OUR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
AND THE PASSAGE OF ANIBA AND
OUR FAIR HOUSING
ORDINANCE
DESPITE OPPOSITION FROM THE
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND
SCARE TACTICS FROM RACISTS
SENDING PAMPHLETS WARNING
OF INTEGRATION SUPPOSED
DANGERS, THE CITY COUNCIL STOOD
FIRM AND REFUSED TO BACK DOWN
COMPLIANCE AND JUST HAPPENED.
THE CITY BEGAN BEGAN TO CHANGE
THROUGH GRASSROOTS EFFORTS
COMMUNITY MEMBERS CAME TOGETHER
TO CHALLENGE AND DISMANTLE THE
BARRIERS TO RACIAL INTEGRATION
IN HOUSING BY CELEBRATING THE
VICTORIES OF THE PAST, WE MUST
CONFRONT THE REALITIES OF THE
PRESENT THE DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES OF THE PAST STILL
IMPACT OUR PRESENT THE WORK
OF EQUITY AND INCLUSION IS FAR
FROM BEHIND IS FAR FROM
FINISHED.
REPAIRING THE HARMS OF OUR
CITY'S HISTORY REQUIRES A
SUSTAINED COMMITMENT FROM ALL
OF US, ESPECIALLY THOSE IN
LEADERSHIP TO CHALLENGE AND
DISMANTLE THE REMNANTS
OF DISCRIMINATION.
OUR SHARED VISION, OUR SHARED
FUTURE FOR AN HOUR DEPENDS ON
OUR COLLECTIVE EFFORT TO ENSURE
A COMMUNITY WHERE EVERY
RESIDENT HAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO
THRIVE REGARDLESS OF THEIR RACE
OR ETHNICITY.
THANK YOU.
SET IT FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL THAT'S ALL NOW I'D
LIKE TO REQUEST THE
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION AT THE FEBRUARY
FIVE REGULAR SESSION.
KURT ZEIL TO THE BOARD
OF REVIEW THE MOTION PLEASE
MOVE BY CAST MEMBER DENHA SAVE
BY COUNCILMAN GARCIA UNDER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IS
APPROVED ALSO JUST PRESENTED TO
YOU FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION TO
THE HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
BOARD OF APPEALS.
BOLEY AND I WILL OBSERVE A
RESOLUTION WITH RESPECT TO SEAN
DUVAL TO THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION TWO
POINTS I'D LIKE TO MENTION WITH
RESPECT TO COMMUNICATIONS EARLY
VOTING IS HERE ONDEMAND VOTING
IS A REALITY AND IT'S USING AND
IN ANN ARBOR IT IS INCREDIBLY
SUCCESSFUL.
WE HAVE WE ARE LEADING THE
STATE PRESENTLY IN EARLY VOTING
OVER SIX HUNDRED OVER SIX
HUNDRED AND FORTY COMMUNITY
MEMBERS HAVE ALREADY EARLY
VOTED HERE IN THE CITY THEN
HARBOR WHICH EXCEEDS ALL OTHER
JURISDICTIONS IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN THAT IS DUE IN IN
WHOLE TO WELL OBVIOUSLY THE
GOOD OFFICES OF THE MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY BUT
INSTITUTIONALLY AND WHOLE TO
OUR ABSOLUTELY OUTSTANDING CITY
CLERK AND THE STAFF THAT SHE
SUPERVISORS IN COLLABORATION
AND PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND THE DISTRICT
LIBRARIES WHO ARE PROVIDING A
NUMBER OF POLLING PLACES FOR US
.
THIS COLLABORATION IS ALLOWING
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO TO VOTE EARLY AND SAVE
TIME, GET MAKE SURE THEIR VOICE
IS HEARD.
ALL GOOD THINGS COME WHEN
PEOPLE VOTE.
AND SO IT'S AN INCREDIBLY
EXCITING CHANGE TO HOW WE DO
BUSINESS HERE IN IN OUR
DEMOCRACY.
FURTHER, I'D LIKE TO TOUCH UPON
VERY BRIEFLY THE STAFF'S FOLLOW
UP TO THE FIVE ENERGY REPORT
WHICH IS IN IN OUR PACKET TODAY
EIGHT TO ZERO IS OF COURSE OUR
CLIMATE ACTION LOADSTAR AND IT
IS AN ALL OUT SPRINT TO
ACCOMPLISH A JUST AND EQUITABLE
TRANSITION TO CARBON NEUTRALITY
BY THE YEAR 2030.
STAFF HAS MADE CLEAR THAT THIS
PATH TO EIGHT TO ZERO REQUIRES
ANESTHESIA, A SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY TO ENABLE US
THOSE OF US WHO OPT IN TO
OVERLAY THE CURRENT UTILITY
WITH CLEAN, RELIABLE, RESILIENT
LOCAL POWER.
ANESTHESIA IS NOT A SILVER
BULLET BUT ITS BENEFITS AND
POTENTIALS ARE ABSOLUTELY HUGE.
INVESTING IN LOCAL GENERATION
STORAGE, NATIONAL GRID
GENERATION STORAGE AND
DISTRIBUTION, HELPING RESIDENTS
AND NEIGHBOR NEIGHBORHOODS AS A
WHOLE OBTAIN THE BENEFITS
ROOFTOP SOLAR BATTERIES,
GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMPS AND MORE
BRINGING RESIDENTS THE
RELIABLE, RESILIENT, CLEAN,
COST EFFECTIVE POWER THAT THEY
DESERVE.
I VERY MUCH LOOK FORWARD TO
PRESENTING THIS MATTER TO THE
VOTERS AND I'M CONFIDENT THAT
THEY WILL AGAIN VOTE IN FAVOR
OF COST EFFICIENT, EFFECTIVE
AND OPT IN CLIMATE ACTION WHICH
IS INDEED A BETTER ENERGY
FUTURE.
BUT EIGHT TO ZERO IS A SPRINT.
BUT A CARBON NEUTRAL FUTURE IS
A MARATHON WITHOUT END AND ON
THAT TIME FRAME AND MSU
CONTINUES TO INTRIGUE A CHANCE
TO ENSURE THAT THE UTILITY IS
THERE FOR THE PEOPLE NO PRIDE
AND DEFERRED MAINTENANCE, NO
SHAREHOLDERS OR DIVIDENDS OR
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS ARE
UTILITY RUN FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD
TO THAT END STAFF IS INDEED THE
STEPS NECESSARY FOR US TO
CONTINUE TO EXPLORE THE COST
AND PRACTICALITY OF AN MSU AND
I SUPPORT THOSE STEPS.
I LOOK FORWARD TO A PHASE TWO
STUDY DESIGNED FOR THE PURPOSE
OF PROVIDING COUNSEL THE PUBLIC
PERHAPS ULTIMATELY A COURT AN
IN-DEPTH APPRAISAL OF THE VALUE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WOULD
BE CONDEMNED AND OWNED AS THE
RESULT OF MUNICIPAL IZATION.
OUR ELECTRICITY STATUS QUO IS
SIMPLY NOT WORKING AND THE
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR DESERVE FAR
BETTER STAFF IN THIS MEMO IN
PART HAS STARTED THE WAY AND
I'M JUST SO EXCITED ABOUT WHAT
WE HEAR AT THIS TABLE WORKING
WITH STAFF AND CRUCIALLY
WORKING WITH COMMUNITY MEMBERS
THROUGHOUT ANN ARBOR CAN DO TO
ACCOMPLISH OUR BETTER FUTURE WE
NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA MAY HAVE EMOTION.
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
TO MOVE BY COUNCILOR ER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
GESHE HAVE A DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WAITING
HOWEVER TO HEAR WHAT WE HAVE TO
SAY WHICH IS TO SAY WITH
RESPECT TO SEE A SIX AN
INTRODUCTION MR TONY MR
HUTCHINSON IS AVAILABLE TO DO
THAT
MR HUTCHINSON I'LL JOIN US
ON ZOM
OH CAN YOU HEAR ME.
YES WE CAN.
OK THANK UNDER QUESTION THE
CITY ENGINEER WE HAD A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS COME IN REGARDING
THE FIRST QUESTION WAS WAS WHY
WE'RE FOCUSING SOLELY ON THE
PROJECT LOCATED ON PRIVATE LAND
INSTEAD OF ADDRESSING ISSUES ON
THE ON SIDEWALKS LIKE THOSE ON
THE ROAD FOR EXAMPLE IN
RESPONSE THAT ITEMS SUCH AS
REPAIRING EXISTING SIDEWALKS,
FILLING SIDEWALK GAPS, REMOVAL
OF STAIRS AND THE RIGHT AND WE
HAVE EXISTING FUNDING SOURCES
THAT CAN BE USED TO ADDRESS
THOSE ISSUES.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE STREET GROUPS
AND SIDEWALK KNOWLEDGE WERE
USED FOR REPAIRS TO EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE NEW
SIDEWALK MILEAGE FOR GROWING
GAPS.
THESE ITEMS OF OUR SCHEDULE
WILL PRIORITIZED WITHIN THOSE
IN THE CASE OF THE PUBLIC
READILY PARK IF THE EXISTING
PARK OR CITY OWNED IT WOULD
HAVE PRIORITY FOR REPLACEMENT
BASED ON THIS VERY POOR
CONDITION.
IT WOULD BE PAID FOR THROUGH
THE STREET BRIDGE AND SIDEWALK
MILEAGE SINCE THERE'S NO
EXISTING FUNDING SOURCE THAT
WOULD BE ELIGIBLE TO USE UNDER
THE EXISTING CIRCUMSTANCES
THERE THE CITY IS SEEKING TO
APPLY FOR A GRANT TO HELP
OFFSET THE COST OF THAT
PROJECT.
THE SECOND QUESTION WAS
REGARDING STAIRS IN CITY ON
SIDEWALKS AND WHY THESE HAVE
NOT BEEN PRIORITIZED FOR CAT
GRANT APPLICATIONS IN RESPONSE
TO THAT IS THAT PROJECT TO
REPAIR REPLACE THE EXISTING
FACILITIES WITHIN THE PUBLIC
RIGHT AWAY ARE NOT GENERALLY
DON'T GENERALLY QUALIFY FOR
GRANTS STAFFORDS WHERE THE
LOCATION OF SEVERAL LOCATIONS
WHERE STEPS EXIST IN PUBLIC
SIDEWALKS AND WE'RE CURRENTLY
WORKING ON DESIGNS TO ADDRESS
THOSE LOCATIONS USING EXISTING
FUNDING SOURCES.
THAT'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS AND
ANSWERS WE HAD AND I'LL BE
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER ANY FURTHER
QUESTIONS ON THAT.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS CAN
I PASS A THREE
QUINNELL I'D
LIKE TO PASS THE ONE
FURTHER
THIS DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA AT WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE ONE ZERO THREE COUNCILOR
ON JUST A QUICK COMMENT AND SEE
TWO IN THE SEVENTY TWO THOUSAND
GOING TO THE WINTER EMERGENCY
SHELTER WARMING CENTER TO THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION.
I WISH IT CAME A LITTLE BIT
EARLIER IN THE SEASON AND I'M
GLAD IT'S HERE.
COUNTERARGUMENT CAN WE ALL SEE
A SIX FOR DISCUSSION WITH
COUNCILMAN BRIAN
?
FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE CONCEPT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE ONE THREE AND
SIX BCI PO YOU CAN SET THE
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF A
ONE THREE AND SIX IS APPROVED
BY THE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT FOOT
REQUIREMENT THAT DOESN'T EXIST
ANYMORE SEE THREE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE THREE THREE THREE E
WILLIAM STREET DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
YOU SEE THREE COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
SO THIS IS A GREAT PROJECT I
DON'T WANNA GO INTO DISCUSSING
EVERYTHING THAT'S WONDERFUL
ABOUT IT BUT THERE'S JUST ONE
ELEMENT THAT I WANTED TO
POTENTIALLY BRING UP AS A
POTENTIAL AMENDMENT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT OUR
RESIDENT REACHED OUT TO US
ABOUT CONCERNS AROUND HOW THIS
DEVELOPMENT MIGHT IMPACT THE
CONSTRUCTION MIGHT IMPACT THE
WILLIAM STREET BIKEWAY DURING
THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE AND WE
HAVEN'T ALWAYS HAD THE BEST
TRACK RECORD ON THIS AND I
THINK THE AMENDMENT THAT I'D
LIKE TO PROPOSE FOR
CONSIDERATION IS
THAT WE WOULD
INCLUDE LANGUAGE THAT SAYS ALL
REASONABLE ATTEMPTS WILL BE
MADE TO AVOID CLOSURE OF THE
WILLIAM STREET BIKEWAY DURING
CONSTRUCTION.
IS THERE A SECOND SECURITY
COUNCIL MIRACLEMAN IS THAT
FAMILY THE BODY HERE MORE TENSE
ISH.
SORRY, I'M JUST THINKING DO WE
SHOULD WE ASK FOR STAFF ADVICE
ON THAT OR NOT?
URBEX CERTAINLY.
WELCOME TO YOU.
WE DID REACH OUT AND ASK A
QUESTION.
THE QUESTION I ASKED THE
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
INCLUDING LANGUAGE IS IT WOULD
WE PREVENT THE CLOSURE OF IT
AND THERE WAS CONCERN THAT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME GOOD SAFETY
REASON AT SOME POINT TO DO SO
WITH THIS AMENDMENT LANGUAGE
DOES IS NOT PROHIBITED BUT
INSERT LANGUAGE THAT SAYS THAT
ALL REASONABLE ATTEMPTS WILL BE
MADE TO TO KEEP IT OPEN SO I
THINK THERE'S SOME FLEXIBILITY
THERE IN THE LANGUAGE IF
THERE'S A NEED FOR TEMPORARY
CLOSURES.
BUT CERTAINLY THE GOAL WOULD BE
DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PROCESS
TO KEEP THIS I MEAN THIS
THOROUGHFARE OPEN JUST IF YOU
WISH MR LYNNETTE'S AVAILABLE
IF
HE'S AVAILABLE, WHY NOT HAVE
HIM SPEAK
MAYBE MANUKAU THE
PLANNING MANAGER WOULD RECEIVE
THAT INQUIRY AND OUR RESPONSE
WAS THAT IN SHORT I DON'T I
DON'T HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT THIS
LANGUAGE.
IT DOESN'T REQUIRE ANYTHING.
I JUST WANT TO BE FORTHRIGHT
THAT IF IN A CITY'S
DETERMINATION THAT THERE IS
VALID REASON FOR THE CLOSURE
OF THAT FOR SAFETY PURPOSES,
THAT'LL BE PART OF THE CITY'S
ASSESSMENT OF THAT.
WE'VE REVIEWED THAT FROM A
BUILDING CODE AND IT IMPACTS
THE RIGHTLY SO.
BUT THAT LANGUAGE DOESN'T
PROHIBIT THAT.
SO I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR IN
THAT REGARD THAT AND I WOULD
ALSO JUST WANT TO POINT OUT FOR
THE THAT IS CURRENTLY BEING
CONSIDERED WE HAVE RECEIVED
SOME PRELIMINARY CONVERSATIONS
BY THE PETITIONERS TO MAINTAIN
ACCESS THROUGH THE BIKEWAY
DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
PROJECT.
SO AGAIN, AS LONG AS IT'S NOT
DEFINITIVE WE CAN DEFINITELY
PURSUE THAT.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR IF
WE DETERMINE THAT FOR SAFETY
REASONS THAT IT MIGHT BE VIABLE
TO CLOSE THAT AND CONSIDER A
DETOUR.
I THINK LANGUAGE WOULD ALLOW US
TO TAKE THOSE MEASURES TO MAKE
SURE THAT EVERYTHING IS AS SAFE
AS POSSIBLE FOR THIS
CONSTRUCTION SITE IF THAT RIGHT
IS IN FRONT OF THE BODY THE
BODY FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THREE FAVOR OPPOSED IS
APPROVED.
SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROPRIATE FUNDS AND APPROVE A
GOLF CART D WITH GOLF CARTS
PLUS THE AMOUNT OF SEVEN
HUNDRED NINETY SIX THOUSAND
FIFTY DOLLARS AND APPROPRIATE
FUNDING FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO
GROUND MASTER MOWERS FOR PARKS
AND RECREATION THE AMOUNT
OF FORTY EIGHT THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY ONE DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCILOR CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE.
YOU SEE ONE MCCRINDLE THANK YOU
.
UM I'M BRIAN STRUGGLING WITH
SOME OF THIS AND SO I REACHED
OUT TO MR DELACOURT THIS
AFTERNOON AND HE LET ME KNOW
THAT MR SPOONER WOULD BE
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER SOME
QUESTIONS FROM COUNCIL THIS
EVENING.
MR SPOONERISM
.
MR SPOONER, ARE YOU AVAILABLE
?
YES I AM.
I WAS VERY SUSPENSEFUL MR
MAYOR.
DO I HAVE ALL MY QUESTIONS AT
ONCE ARE JUST DOING ONE AT A
TIME I GUESS SPEAKING THE
QUESTION TIME COUNTS AGAINST
YOUR SPEAKING TIME.
PROBABLY THE ANSWER COUNTS
AGAINST YOUR SPEAKING TIME BUT
IT IS NOT BUT IF HE'S TALKING
IT'S NOT LIMITED TO THREE
MINUTES.
I GUESS I'D ROLL WITH YOUR
QUESTIONS AND THEN SEE WHAT
HAPPENS.
OK THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE ADVICE.
SO IN READING THE MEMO I
UNDERSTAND THAT THE COST OF THE
GOLF CARTS WAS NOT THE DECIDING
FACTOR TO MOVE FORWARD WITH GAS
AND I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
HOW THE COST COMPARISON WAS
CONDUCTED CONSIDERING WE KNOW
THE MAINTENANCE IS MINIMAL,
THERE'S NO NEED TO GUESS WHERE
THOSE COST SAVINGS FACTORED
INTO THE ABILITY TO AFFORD THE
STORAGE SHEDS NECESSARY TO MOVE
TOWARDS EVS FOR THESE MACHINES.
I'M WONDERING IF WE CAN FOREGO
THE GPS SYSTEMS AND PUT THAT
MONEY TOWARDS THE
INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDED TO
TRANSITION TO EVS BECAUSE THAT
IS NEARLY A QUARTER OF THE COST
OF THE LEASE AND YOU PLEASE
ADDRESSED WHY NEW MAJOR FUNDING
OR GRANTS FOR THE NEEDED
STORAGE BURNS WERE NOT SOUGHT
IN TWENTY SIXTEEN WHEN THE CITY
RECEIVED OVER IS INFRASTRUCTURE
OR IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE THE
CITY ADOPTED A TWO ZERO.
LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS IS
BEING A POTENTIAL ISSUE IN
TERMS OF OUR FUTURE PURCHASING
PARTNER.
THE FIRST QUESTION ABOUT WHERE
VEHICLES OR ELECTRIC OPERATES
THE COST WEIGHED AGAINST THE
GAS GULFPORT'S WE PUT OUT A BID
FOR GAS BALKAN'S THIS YEAR AND
WE JUST DO NOT HAVE THE
INFRASTRUCTURE CURRENTLY TO
HOUSE THAT MANY ELECTRIC GOLF
CARTS.
IT'S NOT JUST A IT'S NOT JUST A
MATTER OF HAVING GOLF CARTS BUT
IT'S ALSO THE ELECTRICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE TO THAT TO
CHARGE THOSE GOLF CARTS.
WHEN WE DID A WHEN WE WENT TO
BID TO BUILD A PERMANENT LESLI
IN 2016, WE ARE EXPECTING TO
GET SOME BACK AT ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND THE TWO THIRDS THAT
WE GOT WERE ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
THOUSAND MORE THAN THAT IN TWO
THOUSAND SIXTEEN DOLLARS AND WE
JUST HAVE NOT HAD WE HAVEN'T
HAD THE MONEY AVAILABLE TO MAKE
THOSE KIND OF UPGRADES IN THE
INTERVENING FIVE YEARS AND HAVE
REALLY WE'VE HAD OTHER THINGS
THAT WE'VE BEEN SPENDING THAT
MONEY ON.
WHAT WAS THE SECOND QUESTION AT
THE I GUESS YOU KIND
OF ANSWERED IT BECAUSE THE COST
SAVINGS OF THE EVS WERE NOT
FACTORED INTO THE ABILITY TO
AFFORD THE SHARED STORAGE SHED
ANY TIME BETWEEN TWENTY SIXTEEN
AND NOW I'M WONDERING IF WE CAN
FOREGO THE GPS SYSTEMS AND PUT
THAT MONEY TOWARDS MOVING THAT
MONEY TOWARDS INFRASTRUCTURE
NEEDED TO TRANSITION TO EVS
QUICKER.
THE GPS SYSTEMS ARE BECOMING
MORE AND MORE A ALMOST
NECESSARY PART OF OPERATING A
GOLF COURSE LIKE LESLIE PARK
WHICH IS IRELAND GOLF COURSE.
THE CUSTOMERS ARE PRETTY MUCH
EXPECTING TO HAVE THOSE GPS
UNITS ON THE OUTSKIRTS.
THEY ALSO HELP US CONTROL THE
PACE OF PLAY BY THE CLUBHOUSE
BEING ABLE TO TRACK WHERE THE
GOLFERS ARE OF COURSE AND BE
ABLE TO TRACK DOWN PROBLEMS.
THAT'S ONE OF THE BIGGEST
COMPLAINTS WE GET GOLFERS IS
THAT THE PACE OF PLAY IS TOO
SLOW AND BEING ABLE TO KEEP A
HANDLE ON WHERE THE PROBLEM
SPOTS LIE FROM THE CLUBHOUSE
AND THEN BEING ABLE TO RECTIFY
THOSE SMALL GROUPS IS A BIG IS
A BIG SERVICE BENEFIT.
SO YES THEY COULD BE BUT WE
FELT THAT THE OPTIONS WERE A
WHERE I WOULD BRING IN MORE
MONEY THAN THEY ACTUALLY COST
OVER THE COURSE OF THE SEASON.
THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF SEEI ONE
COUNTERMAN RINK'S SAY I'M
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH VOTING YES
ON THIS I THINK I CAN BE
PERSUADED TO DO SO BUT ONLY FOR
ONE MORE TIME.
THIS IS A FOUR YEAR LEASE.
WE HAVE A TWENTY THIRTY GOAL TO
TRANSITION FOR OUR CLIMATE
ACTION GOALS AND THE ONLY THING
THAT KIND SWAYS ME THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING I CAN VOTE FOR IS THE
FACT THAT WE'RE NOT PURCHASING
THIS EQUIPMENT AND THAT IT'S
IT'S A LEASE AS OPPOSED TO BUT
WE NEED TO IDENTIFY FOR THE
FUTURE HOW WE'RE EITHER GOING
TO GET THAT INFRASTRUCTURE
THERE FOR HOUSING AND CHARGING
AND HOW WE'RE GOING TO
APPROPRIATELY CHARGE THE USERS
OF THE GOLF COURSES TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT INFRASTRUCTURE
IN THE FUTURE OR WE NEED TO
MAKE SOME DIFFERENT DECISIONS
WITH OUR GOLF COURSES.
IT MAKES SENSE BUT I THINK IT'S
PROBLEMATIC THAT WE DIDN'T EVEN
PRICE WHAT THE DIFFERENCE ON
THIS IS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT WAS
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE DIDN'T
REALLY HAVE THE INFRASTRUCTURE
BACKING IT UP BUT I WOULD NOT
SUPPORT A ONE YEAR RENEWAL
OF THIS LEASE AFTER TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT AND I THINK THAT
AH WE NEED TO MOVE CITY
OPERATIONS AWAY
FROM THESE GAS
POWERED GOLF COURSE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL
VOTE PLEASE STARTING WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER NO HOUSEWORK
YAGMAN YES RETAILOR YES BECAUSE
WE'RE IRON NO NO NO.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES.
ELSMERE CORNELL NO ELLESMERE
DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
MOTION FAILS ABOUT EIGHT VOTES
CASE SIX RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
THE APPROPRIATE ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN THE
GENERAL FUND UNOBLIGATED FUND
BALANCE THE DESIGN AND
PREPARATION OF THE GRANT
APPLICATION FOR THE PAULINE
RUNNYMEDE PATH MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN SUPPORTED BY
COUNCILOR IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
HAVE C6 COUNCILOR BRACKMAN
THANK YOU.
SO I JUST WANTED TO PULL THIS
SO THAT WE COULD TALK A LITTLE
BIT MORE ABOUT IT.
I'M NOT SURE HOW IMPORTANT
PEOPLE REALIZE THAT THIS PATH
IS FOR OUR NON MOTORIZED LINK
FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO DICKEN
ELEMENTARY AND ALSO THERE'S A
BUS DROP OFF THAT CONNECTS
PEOPLE FROM THE BUS STOP TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE SITUATION THIS PATH IS
SOMEWHAT UNIQUE AS I THINK
PREVIOUS COMMENTERS IN THE
QUESTIONS ALLUDED TO.
IT'S LOCATED ON THE PRIVATE
PROPERTY OF WALDEN VILLAGE
CONDOMINIUMS AND IT'S BEEN
THEIR RESPONSIBILITY TO
MAINTAIN BUT IT'S IN POOR
CONDITION.
WE HEAR ABOUT THIS PATH PRETTY
FREQUENTLY AND WORKED FOR A LOT
OF KIDS USE THIS PATH TO GET TO
DICKEN ELEMENTARY.
I HEARD A LOT ABOUT IT WHEN I
WAS CAMPAIGNING.
I HAVEN'T STOPPED HEARING ABOUT
IT SINCE TAKING OFFICE AND I
THINK RESIDENTS HAVE MADE IT
PRETTY CLEAR THAT THEY DON'T
THINK THAT THE STATUS QUO IS
OK.
SO IT FUNCTIONS LARGELY AS
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE.
IN FACT IT'S SO VALUABLE TO
RESIDENTS THAT I HEAR STORIES
OF PEOPLE TAKING THEIR OWN
EQUIPMENT OUT THERE TO MAINTAIN
A PATH INCLUDING CLEARING
BRUSHES.
I TALKED TO ACTUALLY A RESIDENT
FROM A CONDO WHO WHEN SHE
BECAME AWARE THAT IT WAS THEIR
RESPONSIBILITY URGED THEIR
MAINTENANCE STAFF TO DE-ICE THE
PATH.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK WE ALL
HAVE AN INTEREST IN MAINTAINING
THIS PATH AND WHAT THIS
RESOLUTION DOES IS GIVE US ONE
STEP CLOSER I THINK TO DOING
THAT, WHICH IS TO GET THIS
GRANT SUPPLEMENTATION AND IN
ORDER TO DO THAT WE HAVE TO
HAVE DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
THAT'S WHAT THIS RESOLUTION IS
ABOUT.
I THINK IT'S WORTH NOTING THAT
THE GRANT IS NOT GOING TO
COVER THE ENTIRE COST OF THE
PROJECT MATCHING FUNDS ARE
GOING TO BE REQUIRED AND EVEN
AS THE RESOLUTION SAYS, THE
LARGER THE LOCAL MATCH, THE
BETTER CHANCE THERE IS
OF GETTING THE GRANTS.
HOW MUCH THE CONDO ASSOCIATION
CAN OR WILL PAY FOR REMAINS TO
BE SEEN AND STAFF ARE WORKING
WITH THEM ON THIS.
SO I WANT TO EXTEND MY
GRATITUDE TO ALL INVOLVED.
LET'S GET THIS FIXED AND WORK
TOGETHER TO, YOU KNOW, MAKE IT
BETTER.
THANK YOU.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
ALREADY STATED, THE CONDO PATH
IS A REALLY IMPORTANT WALKING
AND BIKING CONNECTOR ESPECIALLY
FOR CHILDREN WHO ATTEND DICKEN
ELEMENTARY.
IT IS CURRENTLY IN DANGEROUS
CONDITION SHORTLY AFTER TAKING
OFFICE IN TWENTY TWENTY I BEGAN
WORKING WITH CITY STAFF TO GET
THE CONDO ASSOCIATION TO REPAIR
THE PATHWAY.
THE ASSOCIATION, ACCORDING TO
CITY DOCUMENTS, IS LEGALLY
OBLIGATED TO MAINTAIN STAFF
ACCORDING TO THEIR THE LANGUAGE
OF THEIR MASTER DEED.
HOWEVER, UNFORTUNATELY THIS
OBLIGATION DESPITE THE
OBLIGATION THE ASSOCIATION HAS
ALLOWED THE PATHWAY OVER THE
DECADES TO FALL INTO DISREPAIR
.
SO IN WORKING ON THIS ISSUE I
BECAME CONVINCED THAT THE BEST
PATH FORWARD WAS TO FIND SOME
SORT OF MIX OF PRIVATE
INVESTMENT FROM THE ASSOCIATION
AND STATE GRANT MONEY AND THAT
LED TO THE PLAN THAT WE HAVE
BEFORE US.
BUT IN ORDER TO QUALIFY FOR
THOSE GRANTS THE CITY DOES NEED
TO HAVE SOME LEVEL OF FINANCIAL
INPUT AND SO THEREFORE I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS PLAN BECAUSE
IT ALLOWS THIS CRITICAL PATHWAY
TO BE FIXED AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE IN A MANNER THAT IS
RIGHT AND FAIR AND AS
CONSISTENT AS POSSIBLE GIVEN
THE CIRCUMSTANCES WITH CITY
PRECEDENT AND BEST PRACTICES
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF PAPER
OPPOSED IS APPROVED WITH 11
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT
WE NOT COME TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE TO THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
IN ALL INSTANCES WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
TO ZERO THREE FIVE TWO ZERO
FOUR AND FIVE DOWN TO ZERO SIX
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
THE CODE THE STEPHEN HARPER.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
IS THERE ANYONE ALIVE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DO NOT SEE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSE.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF FEBRUARY FIVE.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND VISCOUNTS MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE MINUTES WHILE IN FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED B ONE IN
ORDER TO AMEND SECTIONS 5.2
ZERO THREE 5.2 ZERO FOUR AND
FIVE TO ZERO SIX OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
COUNCIL SECURED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF B ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
MR MAYOR SO THE STAFF HERE
PROPOSES AMENDMENTS TO THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
SECTION OF OUR ZONING CODE .
THESE AMENDMENTS WILL REMOVE
BUFFER REQUIREMENTS IN SOME
INSTANCES AND THEN THERE ARE
ALSO SOME ORGANIZATIONAL
CHANGES FOR CLARITY NOW THE
FIRST THING I WANT TO SAY IS
THAT A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IS DISTINCT FROM AND IN
ADDITION TO A SET BACK SO
ELIMINATING THESE BUFFERS DOES
NOT MEAN ELIMINATING ALL SPACE
BETWEEN STRUCTURES.
THE NEXT THING I WANT TO SAY IS
THAT THERE'S A DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN LAND USES AND ZONING
DISTRICTS AND THERE ARE AND
SHOULD BE DIFFERENT LAND USES
WITHIN A ZONING DISTRICT FOR
EXAMPLE, A MIXED USE DISTRICT
SEEKS TO ENCOURAGE DIFFERENT
LAND USES IN THE SAME DISTRICT.
I KNOW THE SOUNDS AWFULLY SILLY
BUT WHAT WHAT THESE AMENDMENTS
WILL DO IS THEY WILL MEAN THAT
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER NO
LONGER REQUIRES BUFFERS BETWEEN
LAND USES THAT ARE IN THE SAME
DISTRICT BECAUSE IT STANDS TO
REASON THAT LAND USES WITHIN
THE SAME DISTRICT ARE NOT
CONFLICTING AND SO THEY DON'T
NEED TO BE BUFFERED CURRENTLY
WE REQUIRE THAT THEY BE BUFFORD
DIFFERENT LAND USES WITHIN THE
SAME DISTRICT WHICH IS ODD SO
IT WILL NO LONGER BE NECESSARY
TO BUFFER ONE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT FROM ANOTHER.
FOR EXAMPLE, A HIGHER DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ARE THREE
ARE FOUR FROM OUR ONE.
THOSE ARE ALL RESIDENTIAL USES
SAME USES NO CONFLICT BUFFERS
WILL BE REQUIRED BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND ALL
OTHERS.
THAT IS TO SAY ANYTHING THAT
DOESN'T START WITH AN AR.
OK SO WHY ARE WE DOING THIS
JUST TO MAKE EVERYONE'S HEAD
SPIN WITH THE LITTLE DETAILS
OF ZONING?
NO, BECAUSE CONFLICTING LAND IS
BUFFERS CAN END UP REQUIRING AS
MUCH AS 30 FEET OF SPACE
BETWEEN BUILDINGS IF BOTH
OF THE BUILDINGS ARE REQUIRED
TO PROVIDE A BUFFER.
THIS IS A WASTE OF LAND AT A
TIME WHEN WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE
EFFICIENT USE OF OPEN LAND SO
THE AMENDMENT WOULD REVIEW
EXCUSE ME REMOVE THE
REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE A
CONFLICTING LANDY'S BUFFER
BETWEEN PARCELS THAT ARE ZONED
OFFICE AND THEN SOME OF THE
SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS LIKE
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND PARCELS
THAT ARE PRINCIPALLY USED AS
RESIDENTIAL.
SO THE IDEA HERE IS TO PERMIT
AN OFFICE NEXT TO A MIXED USE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING THAT HAS
AN OFFICE OR RESTAURANT ON THE
GROUND FLOOR AND APARTMENTS
ABOVE.
WE JUST WANT TO LET THOSE BE
THEY DON'T NEED TO BE BUFFORD
THE PROPOSAL IS ALSO AS I
ALLUDED TO BEFORE, TO REMOVE
THE REQUIREMENT TO BUFFER
BETWEEN MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
NO, SORRY THAT'S GOOD.
I SAID THAT SO WE CAN STOP
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY RIGS.
I JUST WANT TO CONFIRM THAT
WITH THESE CHANGES I THINK THAT
THERE WAS A REARRANGEMENT OF OF
SOME OF THE ELEMENTS AS WELL
BUT THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE
BUFFERING BETWEEN PARKING LOTS
AND REFUSE CONTAINERS IS THAT
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, THAT WAS MY ONLY QUESTION.
YES.
THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
PROVE A LEGAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH RIZZOTTI SCHULTZ
YOU AND EXPLOIT HER PC
RELATIVE TO CITY PROJECTS
REQUIRING THE ACQUISITION
OF EASEMENTS OR OTHER PROPERTY
INTEREST THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
TO ONE OH STRIKE THAT SIWAN AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
FIVE THREE ZERO AND FIVE AND AN
ORDINANCE TO BAN SECTION EIGHT
THREE ZERO AND EIGHT FIFTY ONE
OF CHAPTER ONE AND FIVE HOUSING
CODE OF TITLE SEVEN BUILDING
REGULATIONS OF THE CODE OF THE
BANABA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA SECOND BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
NOW THAT YOU'VE BEEN THROUGH
NEARLY A FULL LEASING CYCLE
WITH BOTH THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE AND RIGHT TO RENEW
ORDINANCES IN EXISTENCE,
COUNCILOR HARRISON AND I HAVE
WORKED WITH OUR ATTORNEYS
STAFF, THE RENTERS COMMISSION
AND SOME LANDLORDS WHO ARE
COMMITTED TO CREATING A FAIR
AND BALANCED RENTAL MARKET TO
TAKE SOME OF WHAT WE HAVE
LEARNED AND MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS TO STRENGTHEN
OUR EXISTING LAW FROM THE
BEGINNING THESE LAWS WERE MEANT
TO ADDRESS A MASSIVE POWER
IMBALANCE IN THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN TENANTS WHO COMPRISE
MORE THAN HALF OF OUR CITY'S
RESIDENTS AND THEIR LANDLORDS.
UNFORTUNATELY, OVER THE LAST
YEAR WE'VE REPEATEDLY HEARD
ABOUT NEW TACTICS BEING
EMPLOYED BY SOME NOT ALL
LANDLORDS SEEKING TO MAINTAIN
THE POWER IMBALANCE OVER
RENTERS AND ADMITTEDLY
ENFORCEMENT HAS BEEN A
STRUGGLE.
THIS ORDINANCE AMENDMENT IS
INTENDED TO CLOSE SOME OF THE
EXISTING LOOPHOLES THAT HAVE
BEEN IDENTIFIED IN AND RIGHT TO
RENEW STRENGTHEN THE CITY'S
ABILITY TO ENFORCE THE LAW AND
REESTABLISH TENANTS RIGHTS IN
AREAS WHERE SOME LANDLORDS HAVE
CLEARLY VIOLATED THE SPIRIT IF
NOT THE LETTER OF THE LAW.
WE'VE ALL HEARD CONSISTENTLY
AND CLEARLY FROM TENANTS ALL
OVER THE CITY INCLUDING FROM
ONE OF OUR STATE
REPRESENTATIVES WHO ARE
FRUSTRATED BY WHAT APPEAR TO BE
VERY CLEAR VIOLATIONS OF THE
INTENT OF OUR EXISTING LAW AND
THEN BECOME EVEN MORE
FRUSTRATED WHEN THE CITY
DETERMINES THAT A CITATION
CANNOT BE ISSUED.
ONE OF THE MOST GLARING
EXAMPLES ARE SO-CALLED EARLY
BIRD SPECIALS WHERE SOME
LANDLORDS HAVE STARTED TO
CONTACT TENANTS MONTHS BEFORE
THEY ARE ALLOWED TO SOLICIT
THEM TO RENEW THEIR LEASES,
THREATEN HUGE RENT INCREASES IF
TENANTS DON'T RENEW BY A
DEADLINE THAT IS ALSO FAR
EARLIER THAN THE TIMELINE
ESTABLISHED BY LAW AND THEN
OFFER THOSE SAME TENANTS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO RENEW EARLY TO
LOCK IN THEIR PRICE OR A LESSER
INCREASE.
TONIGHT'S AMENDMENT WILL CLOSE
THIS LOOPHOLE, MAKING IT CLEAR
THAT LANDLORDS CANNOT MAKE
RENEWAL OFFERS TO CURRENT
TENANTS EARLIER THAN ONE
HUNDRED, ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
DAYS AFTER THE START OF THE
CURRENT LEASE THAT CHANGES
TONIGHT WILL ALSO CLARIFY AND
ADD TO THE LIST OF REQUIRED
INFORMATION THAT LANDLORDS MUST
INCLUDE IN A WRITTEN RENTAL
OFFER INCLUDING A REQUIREMENT
THAT THE LANDLORD LIST ALL
CHANGES IN THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS FROM THE CURRENT
LEASE AND THE PRICE OF RENT AND
ANY FEES DAYLIGHTING COSTS THAT
ARE TOO OFTEN BEING HIDDEN FROM
TENANTS UNTIL LATE IN THE
PROCESS.
THESE TWO CRITICAL AMENDMENTS
WILL STRENGTHEN THE CITY'S
ABILITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS FOR
EARLY AND EFFICIENT RENEWAL
OFFERS AND HOPEFULLY END OF THE
PREDATORY PRACTICE OF PREYING
ON TENANTS FINANCIAL FEARS TO
FORCE THEM INTO SIGNING THEIR
RIGHTS AWAY, EMPOWERING TENANTS
TO MAKE FULLY INFORMED
FINANCIAL DECISIONS WITH
RESPECT TO THEIR HOUSING.
ADDITIONALLY, TONIGHT'S
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT MERGES TWO
SECTIONS OF CHAPTER ONE OF FIVE
INTO ONE SECTION TO REDUCE
DUPLICATE AND CONFLICTING
PROVISIONS AND MODIFY ALL
DEADLINES AND TIMING TO BE
COUNTED FORWARD FROM THE START
OF THE LEASE INSTEAD
OF BACKWARDS FROM THE END
OF THE LEASE WITH HOPES THAT
THESE CHANGES WILL ADD CLARITY
AND REDUCE CONFUSION FOR ALL
WITH RESPECT TO LONG TERM
LEASES, ALL TIMELINES WILL BE
BASED OFF THE FINAL TWELVE
MONTHS OF THE CONTRACT AND
THESE PROPOSED CHANGES ALSO
ADDRESS ONE OF THE APARTMENT
ASSOCIATIONS CITED CONCERNS
EARLIER TONIGHT MODIFYING THE
EXISTING NOTICE REQUIREMENT FOR
LANDLORDS SIMPLY ACQUIRING AN
OFFER TO BE IN WRITING BY
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION,
PERSONAL DELIVERY OR US MAIL.
FINALLY, I DO THINK IT'S ALSO
IMPORTANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE A
MAJOR PROBLEM THAT IS NOT
ADDRESSED BY I WILL COME BACK
TO THEM FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR QUENELLE THANK YOU.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS
FOR DENHA AND HARRISON FOR
WORKING ON THIS AND MILKERS
OFFICE FOR THE TIME THAT THEY
PUT IN.
I THINK THIS IS A HUGE STEP
FORWARD IN MAKING IT MAKING
THIS LAW WORK LIKE IT WAS
SUPPOSED TO WORK SPECIFICALLY
ADDRESSING A CONCERN THAT WAS
RAISED BY SEVERAL MORE FIVE
RESIDENTS WHO REACHED OUT UPSET
AND FRANKLY PANICKING ABOUT
THEIR LEASE RENEWALS.
I APPRECIATE MY COLLEAGUES
LISTENING AND WORKING ON THAT
AND HEARING THOSE OUT AND
WORKING ON AMENDING THIS
ORDINANCE SPECIFICALLY.
I'M HAPPY TO SEE THE PROVISION
PROHIBITING LANDLORDS FROM
PRESENTING ANY LEASING RENEWAL
UNTIL ONE HUNDRED EIGHT HUNDRED
DAYS INTO THE LEASING PERIOD.
AND I REALLY APPRECIATE SEEING
IT.
THIS PROHIBITS LANDLORDS FROM
THREATENING TO RAISE THE RENT
IN TANDEM WITH THE TIME THAT A
TENANT WAITS TO RENEW FOR FOLKS
FOR WHOM THEIR RENT.
MANY OF US THAT OUR HOUSING
COST IS THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
COST IN SEEING THAT RISE THE
WAY THAT IT CAN UNDER THE WAY
THE LAW WAS WRITTEN CAN CREATE
A LOT OF ANXIETY THAT IS JUST
NOT NECESSARILY NECESSARY AND I
DON'T THINK WAS IN KEEPING WITH
THE EARLY LEASING ORDINANCE AS
IT WAS CONCEIVED.
SO I FEEL LIKE THIS CLOSES TO
REALLY IMPORTANT GAPS AND I'M
EXCITED TO SUPPORT IT AND
GRATEFUL TO MY COLLEAGUES.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S.
YES, I TOO WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND
MY THANKS.
THIS IS CLOSING THESE LOOPHOLES
IS REALLY IMPORTANT AS COUNCIL
MEMBER MENTIONED, WE HAD
RECEIVED MANY PANICKED EMAILS
FROM RESIDENTS IN THE FIFTH
WARD FROM PANICKED BECAUSE THE
MESSAGES THEY GOT WERE THAT
THEIR PURPOSE THEY WERE THEIR
RENT WAS GOING TO GO UP BY 15
PERCENT IF THEY SIGNED SOON IN
THE NEXT WEEK OR IT WOULD BE A
MUCH HIGHER RENT INCREASE LATER
.
AND SO THIS WAS MUCH IN ADVANCE
OF THE TIME PERIOD THAT WE HAD
ALREADY SET OUT.
SO THE FACT THAT LANDLORDS ARE
REALLY KIND OF USING THESE
PREDATORY TECHNIQUES TO TO
SCARE TENANTS INTO SIGNING
BEFORE THEY NEEDED TO AND
COMMITTING HAS BEEN HAS BEEN
REALLY UNFORTUNATE TO SEE THAT
WE NEED TO CONTINUE TO REVISIT
THIS ORDINANCE.
BUT I THINK THIS TIGHTENS IT UP
IN TERMS OF A LOT OF CLARITY
ISSUES THAT WE ARE ALREADY
HAVING AND ALSO BEING VERY
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT OUR
EXPECTATIONS ARE DENHA I THINK
I JUST WANTED TO COME BACK
AROUND BECAUSE I DO THINK IT'S
ALSO IMPORTANT FOR US TO
ADDRESS A MAJOR PROBLEM THAT
WE'VE BEEN HEARING ABOUT THAT
THIS DOES NOT RESOLVE TONIGHT.
WE HAVE CONSISTENTLY HEARD FROM
FROM FOLKS AND THIS IS NOT YET
RESOLVE THE ONGOING PREDATORY
OFTEN NONREFUNDABLE AND
INCREASINGLY EXORBITANT
WAITLIST AND OTHER HIDDEN
RENTAL JUNK FEES HAVE BEEN
GETTING LOOPED INTO THESE THESE
PROCESSES AND SO SOLVING THAT
PROBLEM CONTINUES TO BE A TOP
PRIORITY OF MINE.
IT CONTINUES TO BE A TOP
PRIORITY OF THE RENTERS
COMMISSION.
I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON AND STAFF TO
DRAFT ANOTHER ORDINANCE THAT WE
HOPE TO PRESENT TO THE COUNCIL
IN THE COMING WEEKS THAT WOULD
ADDRESS US.
BUT I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
FOR ALL OF THOSE FOLKS WHO MAY
BE PAYING ATTENTION AT HOME AND
KNOW THAT THIS IS ANOTHER MAJOR
PROBLEM THAT IT IS BEING WORKED
ON AND WE HOPE TO HAVE A
SOLUTION COMING TO THIS BODY
SOON.
AND FINALLY, I GUESS I WOULD
JUST ADD I HOPE THAT BASED ON
COMMENTS TONIGHT THAT YOU'LL
ALL SUPPORT MOVING THIS ALONG
TO SECOND READING WHERE I AM
CONFIDENT WE WILL CONTINUE TO
HEAR FROM MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
AND THAT WE CAN CONTINUE TO
WORK TO BALANCE THE SCALES
OF POWER IN INTERPERSONAL THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN.
THANK YOU.
JUST WANTED TO SAY HOW
IMPORTANT TENANT PROTECTIONS
ARE IN THE CURRENT HOUSING
CRISIS AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE WORK THAT THE RENTERS
COMMISSION AND TENANTS PUT INTO
THIS PROCESS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE'VE HEARD
SOME FEEDBACK FROM SOME
ORGANIZATIONS REPRESENTING
LANDLORDS THAT THIS SOMEHOW
ABOUT GRADUATE STUDENTS OR WE
ARE SOMEHOW HARMING RENTERS.
AND I GUESS I WOULD JUST SAY
THAT LIKE WELL I THINK THAT
LANDLORD INPUT IS IMPORTANT
INTO THE NUANCE OF THESE
ORDINANCES OR LAWS.
I'M GOING TO LISTEN TO THE
TENANTS WHEN IT COMES TO
FIGURING OUT WHAT'S GOING TO
PROTECT THEM.
I THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL AND BRITISH.
I JUST WANT TO THANK MY
COLLEAGUES FOR CONTINUING TO
WORK ON THIS AND NOTE THAT I'VE
ALSO GOTTEN SIMILAR EMAILS WAIT
A MINUTE AND HAVE THE SIMILARLY
FRUSTRATING EXPERIENCE THAT WE
COULD NOT ADDRESS THIS PROBLEM
OF THE EARLY BIRD SPECIAL AND
THE IDEA THAT SOMEHOW YOU
COULDN'T YOU COULDN'T EXERCISE
YOUR ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
DAYS THE ORDINANCE GAVE YOU A
PREMIUM FOR IT THAT THAT SEEMED
ABSURD.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
PLEASE ADD ME AS A CO-SPONSOR
AND I SAY THAT OVER SOME IF
WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE
POWERS THAT BE IN THIS CRISIS I
WE SHOULD TALK ABOUT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I HOPE THAT THE WORK THAT'S
BEING DONE HERE, THE MESSAGE
GOES TO THE UNIVERSITY FOR
CREATING THESE CONDITIONS OR AT
LEAST RECOGNIZING THEY'RE JUST
THEY'RE MAKING IT WORSE AS THEY
ADMIT A RECORD NUMBER
OF STUDENTS AGAIN THE THE TENOR
THERE USED TO BE AN OFFICE
OF UNIVERSITY WHERE STUDENTS
RELY ON LEGAL SERVICES AND NOW
THAT S IS NOW SOUTH AND CENTRAL
MICHIGAN LEGAL SERVICES LEGAL
SERVICES, THE SOUTH AND CENTRAL
MICHIGAN.
AND IF YOU SPEAK TO THE FOLKS
THERE, THEY'RE STRUGGLING.
THEY'RE STRUGGLING TO MEET THE
DEMAND TO MEET THE THE NEEDS
OF RENTERS AND LEGAL
REPRESENTATION.
LANDLORDS HAVE OVER 90 PERCENT
OVER 90 PERCENT OF LANDLORDS
HAVE LEGAL LEGAL ACCESS TO
LEGAL SERVICES AND
REPRESENTATION.
I THINK THE NUMBER IS LESS THAN
FIVE PERCENT FOR RENTERS.
SO KUDOS TO OUR MY COLLEAGUES
FOR SPEAKING TO THAT POWER
DYNAMIC AND AND MAKING SURE
THAT FOLKS ARE HOUSED AND TAKEN
CARE OF .
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR POSED.
IT'S APPROVED
.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A LEGAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH RIZZOTTI,
SCHULZ, YUP'IK AND BLAKER PC
RELATIVE TO CITY PROJECTS
REQUIRING THE ACQUISITION
OF EASEMENTS OR OTHER PROPERTY
INTEREST THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS BY COUNCIL MEMBER
TESCHE SECOND AND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
ON PAPER POSED IT'S PROVED D.C.
TO RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT
OF STRENGTHENING THE CITY
OF ARBOR'S FAIR CHANCE HOUSING
PRACTICES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SECURITY
COUNCIL MEMBER YAGMAN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TWO I
BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION
.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THEY'RE
AVAILABLE FOR QUESTIONS BUT I
DON'T THINK WE'VE GOT ANY IN
ADVANCE.
THANK YOU.
MY APOLOGIES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
THE HISTORY UNCOMFORTABLE AS
THE IS TO TO TALK ABOUT AND
THINK ABOUT THE HISTORY
OF OVERPOLICING IN OUR CITY IS
SERIOUS OVER CRIMINALIZATION
ERODES PUBLIC TRUST IN LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
THE WASHTENAW COUNTY
PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE FOUND A
TROUBLING TREND IN THEIR
PROSECUTOR TRANSPARENCY PROJECT
REPORT THAT CAME OUT ON FRIDAY.
IT SHOWED THAT PEOPLE OF COLOR
ARE MORE LIKELY THAN WHITE
PEOPLE TO BE TARGETED FOR
WARRANTS FOR THE SAME CRIMES.
THIS KIND OF POLICING DOESN'T
JUST CAUSE TROUBLE AT THE
MOMENT.
THIS IS A SYSTEMIC FAILURE THAT
PERPETUATES CYCLES
OF DISADVANTAGE AND
DISCRIMINATION.
IT AFFECTS LIVES DEEPLY
CONTRIBUTING TO TRAUMA CAUSED
TO WEATHERING BY AFFECTING
EVERY ASPECT OF LIFE, IMPEDING
ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT, HOUSING
AND THE CHANCE FOR A DIGNIFIED
LIFE POST CONVICTION.
IT'S A SHADOW OVER MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY BLOCKING THEIR
CHANCES FOR A BETTER FUTURE.
WE REALLY NEED TO FIX THIS.
OUR RESOLUTION IS ABOUT MAKING
THINGS RIGHT HELPING THOSE
AFFECTED TO REBUILD AND ARBER
IS KNOWN FOR BEING FORWARD
THINKING.
WE'VE LED WE'VE LED THE WAY ON
FAIR HOUSING AND NOW WE NEED TO
FURTHER ADDRESS THE HARM CAUSED
BY OVERPOLICING AS WE PUSH FOR
A FAIR CHANCE HIRING PRACTICES
IN OUR CITY GOVERNMENT WE'RE
SHOWING THAT WE BELIEVE IN
GIVING CHANCES EVERYONE A FAIR
CHANCE NO MATTER THEIR PAST.
THIS RESOLUTION MAKES OUR
COMMITMENT TO FAIR CHANCE
HIRING EVEN STRONGER, BUILDING
ON THE EFFORTS OF THE 2014
COUNCIL TO BE MORE INCLUSIVE
AND EQUITABLE IN HIRING
ESPECIALLY FOR THOSE WITH
CRIMINAL RECORDS.
WE'RE NOT LOWERING OUR
STANDARDS BY DOING THIS.
INSTEAD WE'RE RAISING OUR
COMMITMENT TO FAIRNESS AND TO
MAKING OUR COMMUNITY BETTER FOR
EVERYONE.
THIS RESOLUTION CALLS CALLS ON
THE CITY TO KEEP FINDING AND
USING THE BEST STRATEGIES FOR
FAIR CHANCE HIRING TO MAKE SURE
WE STAY AT THE FOREFRONT
OF SOCIAL JUSTICE AND EQUITY.
WE'RE WORKING TOWARDS A CITY
WHERE EVERYONE CAN CONTRIBUTE
TO OUR COMMUNITY.
THIS RESOLUTION IS A STEP IN
THAT DIRECTION MAKING SURE OUR
HIRING PRACTICES DON'T KEEP THE
UNFAIRNESS OF OVERPOLICING
GOING.
IT'S ABOUT REPAIRING THE
DAMAGE, HEALING AND SETTING AN
EXAMPLE.
THE BARRIERS CREATED BY
SYSTEMIC BIASES MUST BE
DISMANTLED IF WE ARE TO MOVE
FORWARD AS A TRULY INCLUSIVE
COMMUNITY.
LET'S SHOW FUTURE GENERATIONS
THAT IN ANN ARBOR JUSTICE AND
OPPORTUNITY ARE NOT JUST IDEALS
BUT REALITIES WE STRIVE TO
ACHIEVE EVERY THANK YOU MARIAH
.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO REPEAT A COUPLE
OF DATA POINTS THAT I MENTIONED
LAST TIME WE ADDRESSED THIS
ISSUE WITH REGARD TO BANNING
THE BOX IN CONTRACTOR HIRING SO
GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT IS CRITICAL
TO A PERSON'S SUCCESSFUL
REENTRY TO SOCIETY AFTER
INCARCERATION AND THE SINGLE
MOST IMPORTANT PREDICTOR
OF WHETHER OR NOT A PERSON WILL
RETURN TO PRISON.
HOWEVER SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF FORMERLY INCARCERATED PEOPLE
ARE UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYED A
YEAR AFTER RELEASE BECAUSE
OF EMPLOYER DISCRIMINATION.
SO THIS MATTER BEFORE US
TONIGHT FOLLOWS A PATTERN
OF BANNING THE BOX HERE IN CITY
PRACTICES WE BANNING THE BOX
OF COURSE REFERS TO NOT ASKING
ABOUT A PERSON'S CRIMINAL
HISTORY PRIOR TO ON THE
EMPLOYMENT APPLICATION AND
WAITING UNTIL THE DECISION HAS
ALREADY BEEN MADE TO HIRE THAT
PERSON BEFORE DOING A
BACKGROUND CHECK AND ASKING
ABOUT A CRIMINAL BACKGROUND
HISTORY.
IT'S SO IMPORTANT FOR THE
REASONS THAT I JUST STATED AND
WE'VE DONE THIS IN OF COURSE
HIRING FOR CITY JOBS.
WE'VE DONE THIS IN REQUIRING IT
IN RENTAL HOUSING ACROSS ANIBA
AND MOST RECENTLY IN REQUIRING
OUR CONTRACTORS WHO WHO DO
BUSINESS WITH THE CITY TO DO
THE SAME.
THIS IS THE LOGICAL NEXT STEP
TO REALLY TAKE A LOOK AT ALL
OF OUR JOB CLASSIFICATIONS IN
THE CITY AND DETERMINE WHETHER
THAT FINAL STEP OF A CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND CHECK IS EVEN
NECESSARY GIVEN THE JOB
FUNCTION AND I'M GLAD TO
SUPPORT IT AND I COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR HER CONTINUED WORK
ON THIS COUNCIL BECAUSE HE HAD
THANK YOU MAYOR.
YEAH.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON FOR HER
CHAMPIONING OF THIS EFFORT AND
CONTINUE TO WORK ON THIS.
I THINK THIS RESOLUTION REALLY
TAKES A COMPREHENSIVE AND
INCLUSIVE APPROACH TO JUST
MAKING THE HIRING PRACTICE MORE
FAIR.
I WANT TO NOTE THAT WASHINGTON
HAS THE HIGHEST RATE
OF RECIDIVATE IN THE STATE AS A
COUNTY.
SO THINGS LIKE THIS THAT WE CAN
DO AS A PROGRESSIVE CITY THAT
IS SO COMMITTED TO EQUALITY
REALLY MAKES A DIFFERENCE AND
ALSO, YOU KNOW, IT'S BETTER FOR
LABOR PRACTICES BECAUSE IT
GIVES MORE PEOPLE A CHANCE TO
HAVE EMPLOYMENT REGARDLESS
OF THEIR PAST.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVORITE POST IT IS APPROVED
DIAZANON RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO FOUR ZERO TO
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTIONS
FIVE THAT TO ZERO TO THREE FIVE
TO ZERO FOUR AND FIVE TO ZERO
SIX OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
STEPHEN HARPER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
I'M SAYING THE COUNCIL MARCHMAN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY WE HAVE
THE FORCE THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATION PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
MEET A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CLERK'S SUPPORT BY COUNCIL
MCCONNELL MY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED BY THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY NO THERE IS NO
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW AND SO
MAY I PLEASE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN VISCOUNTS?
NO DECISION BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION ON PAPER
POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED